The Herald Tom Cruise reprises his role as Capt Pete “Maverick” Mitchell, who’s found his niche in the Navy as a test pilot, pushing the limits of new aircraft. When his friend and former rival Adm. Tom “Iceman” Kazansky (Val Kilmer) reassigns Maverick to train a new group of Top Gun graduates for a special high-risk mission, he must return to Miramar. But when he learns that the class includes Lt Bradley “Rooster” Bradshaw (Miles Teller), the son of Maverick’s late best friend, Goose, he must find a way to resolve the past − for the sake of Rooster’s future. Compared to the original, this sequel is 70 percent less sweaty and 90 percent more tween appropriate. “Top Gun: Maverick” is a tale of redemption both for Maverick and for the original film. It is a piece of classic cinema, one of the most significant films of the 1980s. But it projected hyper masculinity as aspirational, arrogance as cool, and the idea that rules are for losers. The fact that Maverick’s recklessness cost his best friend his life was lost in the excitement of the Danger Zone and the camaraderie of volleyball on the beach and serenading bar beauties. “Top Gun: Maverick” remedies this − so much so that it’s actually a really great idea to watch them as a double feature with teens and tweens. In the sequel, the perspective is flipped, with the class of swaggering fighter pilots shown from the instructor’s point of view. They’re not ready, they’re overly confident, and it’s clear that they need structure and guidance. Still shattered from Goose’s death all these years later and afraid that Goose’s son, Bradley (Teller), could lose his life the same way, Maverick has to teach the young guns how to take risks in the most risk-averse way. Where viewers are likely to feel the intensity is in the aerial combat, which is notably more breathtaking and includes stunning action sequences. Cruise is known for insisting on authenticity by performing stunts himself, and he and the other actors really fly these planes. That helps make the film more immersive. Many former ‘80s teens have fond memories of watching Top Gun with their parents. “Top Gun: Maverick” is made for that experience to continue. Cast: Tom Cruise, Jennifer Connelly, Miles Teller, Val Kilmer Director: Joseph Kosinski Studio: Paramount Pictures Genre: Action/Adventure Topics: Friendship Character Strengths: Courage, Humility Run time: 131 minutes MPAA rating: PG-13 MPAA explanation: sequences of intense action, and some strong language. − https://www.commonsensemedia.org