The Herald Latwell Nyangu Youth Interactive Writer Of everything you wear, your expression is of most important. But before setting off for college, it would be wise to review your specific dress codes. Students can wear whatever they like—so long as it is neat and modest—anywhere on campus. Have you ever noticed some students dress in expensive clothes that you may not afford? Ideally, some people may be richer than you. Even though clothing is one of the basic needs, the theory of ‘the haves and the have nots’ illustrates the fact that some people may spend more than others. Universities and colleges accept students from different backgrounds. Therefore, you should not expect every student to dress on a US$100 attire. Despite your choice, fellow students will likely have something to say about everything you wear. I have seen countless girls being called with all sorts of names because of their dress code while boys also suffer the same fate. For instance, if you are a girl and put on a miniskirt, they refer you to as of loose morals and if you put on a long dress, they call you ‘Mai muSunday’ (implying innocence). On the other hand, boys can be labelled broke or poor due to certain aspects of their dress code. In actual fact there is a meaning in every dress code. But like I always indicate, college life, ma1, many times  you get unnecessary pressure, we keep giving each other pressure over how we dress. At times you can wish to have uniforms due to the daily change of dress code but it’s a big no, college is a big pool for big girls and boys. Just like at work, we always jokingly tease each other over our dress codes. Like myself each time I put on a suit or something formal, I attract laughter from my workmates. You hear them asking, kwakanaka here, or where do you want to go, imagine! How the dress code usually influences the learning of students, is the prime concern of this piece. Every time I put on something new, it becomes a discussion of the day. But dress code varies according to the occasion and location prepares students for reality. Students realise that some outfits are not be appropriate for certain circumstances. ‘Dress so you can walk to class comfortably in the sunshine’, is important and most desired. Students have been generally identified with their level of dressing since ages. The dress code for college students has always been a controversial issue among the various stakeholders. On one side, institutions have faced resistance for dress code policies and for maintaining a healthy learning environment. They have faced opposition from the students and their parents, who consider it as a meaningless restriction on them. So, in short, don’t be afraid to experiment with your outfits in college! Try dressing up for a day. Wear additional or fewer layers depending on the weather. Show up to lecture in your pyjamas if you’re running late! As long as your clothes aren’t inappropriate or distracting, you have the freedom to wear practically whatever you desire. Many students dress according to their personality and the phrase ‘my dress, my choice’ encourages students to wear whatever they feel.  Some people believe that dressing defines who we are. Even though dressing cannot show the inner self, it represents our personality. Ladies are fond of dressing in front of a mirror, unlike men. Before getting out of your hostel, you should admire your appearance. Some people dress based on personal attributes and behaviour. Your dressing code creates an impression on the audience and your peers can judge your character by your dressing. Many professors are more likely to judge your character during a class presentation by your dressing. You deserve respect from peers and anyone at the university or college, but what impression does your dress code portray? Can someone respect you by looking at how you have dressed? The answers to these questions can grant you respect or judge your character as well. Dressing ‘for the occasion’ shows respect. Before wearing any clothing, remember who you are going to meet. Why do students dress in various stylish clothes? Many students dress to impress and to identify themselves. The type of dresses worn by your colleagues is likely to define their social status. Unlike many high schools, uniforms are not embraced in universities and colleges. Hence, students have the authority to choose the types of clothes they wear. You should wear whatever you can afford, do not try to be someone! Most colleges have a very casual dress code, so students can often wear whatever clothing style they prefer. While a few colleges have strict requirements for students’ attire, many are much more lenient. College dress codes vary with the campus area, type of occasion, and student’s field of study. Classroom attire should not only meet dress code standards, but it should also be comfortable. College classes last for about two to more hours. However, some may extend to be several hours long. So if you only feel comfortable in a suit for half an hour, you may want to explore an alternative option. Respectively a student is required to engage in at least one class presentation in a semester. Since most class presentations are done before an audience, it is essential to wear clothes that will impress the audience. The manner you dress to meet your boyfriend or girlfriend on campus may differ from how you dress to meet your project supervisor. Notably, some dresses are considered to be ‘seductive,’ therefore, such clothes can influence the level of respect that your friends and university staff may have for you. Should you be worried about segregation due to dressing on campus? As far as dressing is concerned, do not try to fit in a group that you do not belong to. If you are not comfortable with covering your hair, it is not essential to force yourself to be in any group. Even though you may be identified by how you dress, do not compromise your identity. If you are not a member of the best dressed group, do not stress yourself trying to ‘fit in their shoes.’ Avoid forcing yourself in a group that you do not belong to. Do not give yourself unnecessary pressure. The quality of being presentable is significantly influenced by how you dress. Your dress code defines acceptable appearance. Many students enjoy the freedom of dressing in universities. However, despite this freedom of dressing, you should ensure that you are presentable. Before leaving your house, stand before a mirror and see whether you are presentable. Dress shouldn’t matter so much in relation to learning. But, the outlook of a teacher inevitably  creates an impression in the minds of students on first sight and can to an extent, impact the learning atmosphere. Formal clothing has its significance, not only in following norms, but also to get respect, portray professionalism, and in maintenance of social distance. Other students can make a  judgment based on clothing, attributing to a powerful appearance or a sociable appearance.