The Herald LONDON. — Arsenal are stepping up their pursuit of Leeds winger Raphinha after agreeing a fee to sign Gabriel Jesus from Manchester City. The Gunners have settled on a £45million fee to bring Brazilian Jesus (25) to the Emirates with personal terms and a medical still to be agreed. After several weeks of work on a deal, Edu has now finally agreed a package with City for Jesus, who is now set to discuss personal terms before potentially undergoing a medical in north London this week. And now Mikel Arteta is after the striker’s compatriot as they battle to beat London rivals Tottenham and Chelsea, as well as Barcelona, to the signing of Raphinha. The winger (25) has two years left on his deal at Elland Road but has told Leeds that he will not be agreeing new terms. Arsenal have seen one approach rejected already this summer but are ready to return with an improved offer with talks over a deal said to be at an advanced stage. West Ham tried to sign the Brazil international in January but their £50m offer was quickly rejected. Barcelona had been expected to wrap up a deal easily given that the winger is represented by Nou Camp legend Deco. But financial troubles in Catalonia have left the door open for English Premier League clubs to step in. Arteta is being well backed by the board in North London, having already signed Portuguese midfielder Fabio Vieira from Porto in a deal worth £34million after add-ons. Goalkeeper Matt Turner will also link up from MLS side New England Revolution. Meanwhile Brazilian forward Marquinhos has been brought in from Sao Paulo for £3m. The Gunners were pipped to Champions League football by rivals Tottenham last season. And Spurs are also moving quickly to ensure they can get ahead of Arsenal once again. Antonio Conte has already added Yves Bissouma, Ivan Perisic and Fraser Forster to his squad. Meanwhile, William Saliba has reportedly held “positive” contract talks at Arsenal as the club look to tie him down to a long-term deal. The 21-year-old looks finally set to be a part of the Gunners squad three years after joining from Saint-Etienne for £27million. Boss Mikel Arteta said last month the France international will be integrated into his team following his impressive loan at Marseille. His stunning form helped the Stade Velodrome outfit finish second in the table, with his performances earning him the Ligue 1 Young Player of the Year award. Marseille are keen to turn his temporary stay into a permanent switch amid claims the club are poised to submit a £26m bid. But the North London giants will refuse to part ways with the youngster, with Saliba to challenge Ben White and Gabriel Magaelhaes for a starting spot. SunSport revealed in May how Arsenal were to open talks to extend the defender’s stay at the Emirates with his deal to expire in 2024. — The Sun.