The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter NGEZI Platinum Stars coach Benjani Mwaruwaru is keen to add more young players into his fold when the Castle Lager Premiership football mid-season transfer window opens this week. The former Warriors captain, who is in his first professional coaching job at the Mhondoro side, believes youngsters should be afforded a chance at the big stage early. And he has been practicing what he preaches after elevating three teenagers from the club’s development side, Ngezi Under-19 — Walter Vuwa, Tinotenda Murasiranwa and Leslie Kashitigu. The three young players have become integral team members in the short period Mwaruwaru has taken charge of the team scoring and providing assists regularly. Another youngster, Takunda Benhura, who had been co-opted by Rodwell Dhlakama before his resignation in February, has also been enjoying game-time under Mwaruwari’s tutelage. Upon taking over the reins at Ngezi Platinum, the former Manchester City forward declared his intention to embark on a revolution which will see deserving youngsters being recruited into the system. He has won three games, drawn four and lost twice in the nine games he has been in charge. And on Saturday, Mwaruwaru’s charges looked very much refined in their 3-0 win over Bulawayo City at Barbourfields. “I am happy with what the youngsters in my team have done so far this season. “I always say we need to give these junior players a chance and I am happy they have done so well,” said Mwaruwaru. “I know we have to strike a balance between results and the need to have a culture, a philosophy that we want to build at the team. “Our goal remains the same. We need to give these youngsters a run and I assure you, they can do incredible things on the field of play. Some of us were also given a chance when we were still very young and we managed to realise big dreams.” He said when the window opens on Friday, he will be looking at strengthening his squad, especially in the midfield, and made it clear he would be considering some players in the development side as well. “We are obviously looking at making some additions to our team. We need to add personnel in defence and also in the midfield. “Maybe we will look outside but if we can’t get our targets, then we have a vibrant junior team where we plucked some of the outstanding players in our team right now. “We can’t say a lot at the moment but we will see what happens when the window opens.” Mwaruwaru said he will be targeting a top-four finish at the end of the season. “We are well within our targets at the moment. We need to improve on some aspects of our game. “We need to be fine when it comes to playing it from the back and the like. “We are targeting to finish the season in the top-four. “The competition in the league is stiff and we need to be consistent. We need to notch up good performances as we go.” Ngezi Platinum play Highlanders in their next match.