The Herald Business Reporter Farmer organisations have implored the Government to extend the early delivery incentive deadline for maize to allow farmers who had a late crop to also benefit. This comes after the Government introduced a fixed early delivery incentive of US$90 dollars, in addition to the set producer price of $75 000, to boost grain deliveries to the Grain Marketing Board (GMB). However, concerns have been raised over the possibility that the late crop may not attain the required moisture levels by July 31. Maize needs to be dried down after harvesting to ensure 12,5 percent moisture content. The early delivery incentive, which will be extended to other crops such as traditional grains, sunflower, and soybean, applies to all deliveries made since the commencement of the marketing season on April 1, 2022. The uneven rains experienced during the last rainy season saw farmers planting at different stages, with some sowing at the end of January. Some farmers also planted long-season varieties, which are normally harvested in May and June. “We are compelled to deliver the grain when it reaches moisture content level of 12,5 percent,” Zimbabwe Commercial Farmers Union president Dr Shadreck Makombe said. “Last season, there were so many factors which worked against farmers such as uneven rains; it was not a normal season and we definitely had a late crop. Those who had late planted crop may not be able to dry down their grain to required moisture levels.” Dr Makombe said “we will continue lobbying the Government” to have the deadline reviewed. Zimbabwe Farmers Union director Abdul Nyathi said the Government should consider “pushing the deadline further.” “This affected me and several other farmers. Government should have considered that we had a late season and the majority of the farmers will not meet the deadline so that they can benefit,” he said. “We believe the Government is doing this so that farmers benefit and should consider pushing further the deadline to allow us to deliver and benefit from the incentive.” Last week, the GMB stepped up efforts to encourage deliveries of maize and other controlled farmed commodities, an operation meant to boost deliveries to the national granary. The operation was triggered by low deliveries at the time the Government wanted to boost strategic reserves. The Ministry of Lands, Agriculture, Fisheries, Water and Rural Development said about 5 000 tonnes of maize had been delivered to the GMB since April 1, when the marketing season began compared to about 55 000 tonnes delivered during the same period last year. Through statutory instruments on the controlled products (maize, soya beans, wheat and barley) all farmers or producers of such commodities are required to deliver the product to “any nearest” GMB depot. Farmers intending to retain a portion of the produce for consumption or for commercial purposes shall seek an exemption. In addition, no person is allowed to sell or buy maize or any controlled product other than GMB except registered contractors. Furthermore, all farmers, producers and contractors will require a permit to move the produce from one area to another. Trading in controlled products without GMB permission is an offense. All retailers, millers, livestock businesses and other users of the controlled products are required to register with the GMB before engaging in such business. The GMB will enforce the Statutory Instruments to ensure compliance. Those found in breach of the regulations risk prosecution, forfeiture of the commodities or fines three times the selling price of the products, according to the policy. GMB spokesperson Nickson Kanyemba encouraged farmers to comply with the law to deliver their maize to the GMB.