The Herald LOS ANGELES. – If the BET Awards at the Microsoft Theatre in Los Angeles were a night for black excellence, then it was a historic one for Nigerians Tems and Wizkid. Tems won Best International Act, while Wizkid won Best Collaboration for “Essence” featuring Tems and Justin Bieber. Tems had beat fierce competition from top acts including her country man Fireboy who performed at the ceremony. She dedicated her best international act award to the many women who “dare to dream”. “Where I’m from, things like this don’t happen,’’ said the Lagos, Nigeria-born singer who won best collaboration with Justin Bieber and Wizkid for their song ‘Essence’. “This is a dream. If you’re watching me, I want you to imagine yourself as me because you are meant to be here too.’’ Taraji P. Henson, Janelle Monae and Jazmine Sullivan were some of the big stars using the BET Awards stage to strongly criticize the Supreme Court’s recent decision to strip away women’s constitutional protection for abortion. Henson took the stage as the show’s host on Sunday with an uplifting message about “Black excellence’’ before she launched into the court’s overturning of the landmark Roe v. Wade ruling last week. The actor took the stage after Lizzo opened the show with a flute solo in a glittery-gold outfit performing her single “About Damn Time.” “It’s about damn time we talk about the fact that guns have more rights than a woman. It’s a sad day in America,’’ said Henson, thanking Lizzo who along with Live Nation recently donated US$1 million in tour proceeds to Planned Parenthood. “A weapon that can take lives has more power than a woman that can give life – if she chooses to.’’ Janelle Monae held up her middle finger toward the Supreme Court before she introduced nominees for best female R&B/pop artist. Her speech earned a standing applause “These artists are making art on our own terms, owning our truths and expressing ourselves freely and unapologetically in a world that tries to control and police our bodies, my body and our decisions, my body,’’ said the singer. Afterwards, Monae introduced Sullivan as the category’s winner who made a plea to men for their support of women. “It’s a hard time for us,’’ Sullivan said. “I want to speak directly to the men: We need y’all. We need y’all to stand up, stand up for us, stand up with us. If you’ve ever benefited from a woman making one of the toughest decisions of her life, which is to terminate a pregnancy, you need to be standing. This is not just a woman issue. This is everybody’s issue. We need your support more than ever.’’ – Africanews.