The Herald LONDON. — Liverpool forward Sadio Mane will travel to Germany tomorrow ahead of his medical with German Bundesliga football champions Bayern Munich. The 30-year-old is expected to be unveiled on Wednesday at the Allianz Arena following his £35.1million transfer. The Reds had been reluctant to lose Mane this summer, but a move became almost inevitable when the Senegalese international confirmed his desire to quit Anfield. He joined Liverpool for £31million plus £2.5million in add-ons from Southampton in 2016 and quickly became an integral part of Jurgen Klopp’s revolution on Merseyside. Alongside Mohamed Salah and Roberto Firmino, Mane was part of one of the most potent attacking trios in world football that helped the Reds win a sixth Champions League crown in 2019 before ending the club’s 30-year wait for the league title 12 months later. Across his six year spell at the club, the Senegalese international scored 120 goals in 269 appearances in all competitions. He has enjoyed an exceptional year so far, winning the African Cup of Nations with Senegal before helping Liverpool win the Carabao Cup and FA Cup and finish runners-up in the English Premier League and Champions League. While Mane is heading for the exit, Liverpool yesterday confirmed Calvin Ramsay’s £6.5million signing from Aberdeen after he underwent a medical on Saturday. The 18-year-old, who won the Scottish Football Writers’ Young Player of the Year award last season, will serve as Trent Alexander-Arnold’s understudy at right-back. Liverpool are paying an initial £4m up front with a further £2.5m coming in the form of add-ons. The 18-year-old recently travelled to Liverpool to finalise personal terms and undergo a medical. The defender has signed a five-year deal at Anfield and will link up with Jurgen Klopp’s squad for pre-season. Liverpool have no plans to loan Ramsay out. Ramsay broke into the Aberdeen first team and made 33 appearances in the season just finished, scoring one goal and registering nine assists across all competitions. His performances earned him the SFWA Young Player of the Year Award while he also has European experience through the Europa Conference League, along with U21 international experience. Liverpool had been locked in talks with the Dons over the defender after making an initial £4m offer, with £2m in add-ons.  However, it is understood Aberdeen wanted at least £5m up front, with £5m in add-ons. But the £6.5m fee agreed ensures Ramsay will become Aberdeen’s record sale, surpassing their current record of £3m from Nottingham Forest for Scott McKenna. The Dons have also received an extra £1m for the centre-back this summer after Forest were promoted to the Premier League. — Mailonline. 