The Herald LONDON. — Manchester United are willing to let go of five first-team players in the upcoming transfer window to make way for new signings, according to the Manchester Evening News. The Red Devils believe they will have to sell in order to reinforce their squad this summer — with new manager Erik ten Hag looking to recruit a central defender in the transfer market. While the former Ajax boss is willing to give certain players at Old Trafford a clean slate, reports have emerged that five defensive players are up for sale in the upcoming months. Ten Hag has inherited a United defence that is both overcrowded and underperforming, with their back-line conceding 57 goals in the league last year — their worst defensive season since 1978/79. It’s understood that Phil Jones, Eric Bailly, Brandon Williams, Axel Tuanzebe and Aaron Wan-Bissaka have all been told they can leave the club this summer as the Red Devils look to rebuild at the back. Both Williams and Tuanzebe completed respective loans last season but they failed to have a big enough impact to warrant a place in United’s squad next year. Meanwhile Jones, Bailly and Wan-Bissaka have simply fallen out of favour and are deemed surplus to requirements at Old Trafford — with the club confident they can sign apt replacements in summer. Though the Red Devils are yet to make a summer signing, it’s not for want of trying – with the club launching moves for Ajax duo Jurrien Timber and Antony, as well as Barcelona midfielder Frenkie de Jong. United will search for a new centre-back to challenge Harry Maguire and Raphael Varane for a starting spot — after their £30million move for Timber came crashing down last week. Timber’s Ajax team-mate Lisandro Martinez and Pau Torres of Villarreal are other potential options at the back. Ten Hag’s top target remains to be Frenkie de Jong, his former player at Ajax, but any move for the Dutchman will likely come as a result of a number of club departures. In fact, ten Hag is finally set to bolster his Manchester United squad this summer, with arrivals reportedly ‘’imminent’’ at Old Trafford. — Mailonline.