The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter FC PLATINUM coach Norman Mapeza says he aims to introduce more young players to the big stage following the signs of success in the initiative introduced by the reigning Castle Lager Premiership football champions at the beginning of the year. The former Zimbabwe international was even sitting on top of the world this week after he was voted Coach of the Month for May while his 19-year-old striker Thandolwenkosi Ngwenya also scooped the Player of the Month award. The three-time champions have embarked in a deliberate policy to promote development players this season and they are beginning to reap the results, after recovering from a slump they suffered following the wholesale departure of veteran players in January. Teenage forward Ngwenya and the other young players such as Kelvin Mangiza (21), Oscar Bhebhe (20) and Panashe Mutimbanyoka (20) are fitting into the system perfectly. FC Platinum also promoted Peace Chivhunduko and Thubelihle Ndlovu before the start of the season. And, with the mid-season transfer window drawing closer, Mapeza said FC Platinum have no immediate plans to buy players to beef up their stocks. Instead, the club could be tempted to elevate more promising talents from their Under-19 side, which plays in the ZIFA Central Region Division One. “We are in the mid-season break right now and we are not yet 100 percent sure whether we will add one or two players (from outside). “But if there are any players available, maybe we might look to add one or two guys. But it’s always difficult (during the mid-season) because most of the players still have running contracts with their clubs. “As for now we just work with the guys here and look to introduce more youngsters into the team,” said Mapeza. The former Zimbabwe international said he felt his efforts were being recognised after he was voted Coach of the Month for the first time this season. He was also full of praise for Ngwenya following his incredible feat in the last month. The teenage forward was instrumental in the team’s fine run as he scored four goals in three outings and also weighed in with one assist. In fact, Ngwenya, who was also in top form when FC Platinum won the season-opening Chibuku Super Cup, now has seven league goals to his name and four assists midway through the Castle Lager Premiership campaign. “It’s always great, you feel motivated when you are rewarded for your hard work. It’s a massive achievement to be voted Coach of the Month,” said Mapeza about his accolade. “As for Thando, I think he really deserves it. He has been working very hard ever since we introduced him to first team football. If you can recall the Chibuku Super Cup tournament, he did well and has continued to work hard. “He is still young, he is someone, humble, hardworking and always listens to the coaches. What is important for him is to keep his feet on the ground and stay focused.” After experiencing a slump at the beginning of the year, FC Platinum are back on track in the championship race. They are second in the competition, ahead of the resumption of the second round matches next week. They were boosted by the ruling from Premier Soccer League Disciplinary Committee, which awarded them the abandoned match against Highlanders on a 3-0 scoreline this week, to take their points tally to 34, one behind log leaders FC Platinum. FC Platinum won four straight games before the mid-season break without conceding. They thrashed giants CAPS United 3-0 before accounting for Yadah (2-0), Triangle (4-0) and Cranborne Bullets (1-0). “I think our turnaround has been a result of hard work by the group,” said Mapeza. “We have been working so hard without any pressure. We know we didn’t have the best start when the season resumed but it was all about self-belief, working hard and staying focused. “Of course, the second half of the season is not going to be easy. But what is important for us as a club is to keep working hard and stay focused. Like I said we don’t have to put ourselves under pressure whatsoever and then we will see how the season goes,” said Mapeza.