The Herald LONDON. — Chelsea are confident they can sign Manchester City forward Raheem Sterling this summer, as long as a fee can be agreed with the English Premier League football champions for the player. Thomas Tuchel is a big admirer of Sterling, with the Blues boss believing the forward is better suited to Chelsea’s style of play than Romelu Lukaku, who is set to go out on loan back to former club Inter Milan next season. However, City are understood to value Sterling at up to £60m, even though the player only has one year left on his contract at the Etihad. Chelsea, meanwhile, believe a fairer price would be closer to the £35m which Bayern Munich could end up paying for Liverpool forward Sadio Mane. Mane also has just 12 months left on his deal at Anfield, but at 30 is two years and eight months older than Sterling. Sky in Italy have reported a £35m offer from Chelsea for Sterling. Sterling has won four English Premier League titles, four League Cups and the FA Cup at City, after joining the club in the summer of 2015. The 27-year-old has played 339 times for the current top-flight champions, scoring 131 goals — just outside the top ten in the club’s all-time goalscorers list. But a guaranteed starting spot has not always been provided for Sterling under Pep Guardiola. The England winger started just five out of a possible 12 Champions League games this season and was unused by City’s Spanish manager nine times in the Premier League last term. Sterling started his career at Chelsea’s west London rivals Queens Park Rangers, before moving to Liverpool when he was 15. Meanwhile, Arsenal are set to complete the signing of Raphinha this week, according to reports. The Leeds United star has attracted interest from several clubs this summer including Barcelona. West Ham also bid for the winger in January and Chelsea were thought to be leading the race at one point but Arsenal have now emerged as the favourites to sign the Brazilian. And a transfer is close to being finalised with Arsenal offering a higher salary than their rivals, according to Goal. Arsenal have also been handed a boost in their pursuit of Raphinha with Barcelona withdrawing their interest. The Catalan club had been thought to be favourites to sign the 25-year-old due to their connection with his agent Deco. Barca considered Raphinha as a potential replacement for Ousmane Dembele with the Frenchman linked to Chelsea — but Raphinha is reportedly not willing to wait for the Xavi’s side to make a move. He has reportedly agreed a deal in principle with the club however, though Barcelona have not met Leeds’ £47million asking price. Tottenham are also believed to be monitoring Raphinha but will only make a move if they cannot complete a deal for Everton star Richarlison. — Sky Sports/The Sun