The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter WARRIORS star defender Jordan Zemura has turned everything around, including his market value in the past 10 months. He has been a revelation in his professional debut term for the just-promoted English Premiership football side AFC Bournemouth. The 22-year-old played a key role in the re-elevation of the Dorset side which finished the English Championship second behind Fulham during the 2021/2022 season. And it was especially sweet for Zemura who is set to become only the fifth Zimbabwean to play in the English Premier League. He will face-off against compatriot Marvellous Nakamba when the world’s best league commences in August. The two are the only Zimbabweans plying their trade in this league. But it is Zemura who is celebrating more after a huge jump in both his career and value following a hugely successful season under the tutelage of Scott Parker. The Zimbabwe utility player scored three goals and provided a single assist in 33 matches and has been a target of several clubs. But the Cherries seem to have warded off competition from rivals by offering the talented youngster an improved offer. He was getting something in the region of US$395 per week since he had been treated as a reserve before making the big break at the beginning of the just-ended season. And in February, Zemura, according to Transfer Market, was worth just over US$2 million which has now jumped to over US$3 million. The Zimbabwean is currently on an off-season break, enjoying family company in London as he braces for his English Premier League debut. “Looking forward to the season and I can’t wait,” Zemura said. “I am glad our team managed to secure the ticket back to the top-flight and we will do what we have been dreaming of. “At the moment, we are enjoying the break, recharging the batteries and looking forward to a good season in the English Premier League. “The previous season in the English Championship was extremely good. I made my debut and I think it was fine and I am very much thankful to everyone around. “However, it was also very disappointing to miss some action due to injuries but well that’s part of the game.” And Zemura is not thinking too much about the game, at least for now, as he has been spending most of his time doing charity work around London. The versatile player could have become an academic as his parents pressed him to pursue education before they noticed his footballing talent. He ended up doing both and he loves academics as much as he does the beautiful game. And he has been preaching the education gospel across schools in London where he is already a role model. Last week, Zemura was at Lessness Heath Primary School in Belvedere, London, where he delivered a moving speech to encourage students to value education. “Education unlocks every closed door,” he told the appreciative students. “We need to value education and put all our effort towards that. “We should also be serious with sport as it is part of the equation. “I would like to encourage you all to dream big, work hard, be real, stay focused and eye the utmost goal.” Zemura’s charity work is not only confined to London. He has also been working tirelessly to uplift disadvantaged youths in his rural home of Murehwa in the past two years. He has donated football kits and sponsored tournaments in this area. He is also targeting to stage tournaments in Mutare and eventually across the country. Zemura is targeting to eventually form a foundation which will help the vulnerable members of the society.