The Herald MOSCOW. – Even though Russia is going through new trials and tribulations at present, they are being tackled and will be overcome, Russian President Vladimir Putin said during his meeting with military college graduates yesterday. The head of state spotlighted the courage and professionalism of the servicemen, involved in the operation in Ukraine, and assured that the armed forces will be reinforced and will become even stronger. Here are the main statements made by President Putin. On trials and overcoming “The state is undergoing another set of trials. […] Yes, there are restrictions, and they are indeed being overcome in various ways, but they are being tackled and will be overcome,” the head of state assured. According to Mr Putin, Russian history never saw a time when its people could “feel like they don’t have to do anything, like in some country, prosperous, but barely noticeable on the world map.” “Russia has always gone through some sort of trials and tribulations. […] Always, in order to achieve a goal, we must go through certain hardships. But, as you know, a journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step”. On Moscow’s special military operation “Today’s officers and soldiers […] protect Donbass from neo-Nazis, fight for peace and security for our people, for Russia’s right to sovereign development. We are proud of that, during the special military operation, our fighters act bravely, professionally, like real heroes. Russian fighters of various nationalities fight side by side,” Mr Putin stressed. On building up the military “We will keep developing and strengthening our Armed Forces taking into consideration potential military threats and risks, and we will improve their combat power based on the lessons of modern armed conflicts,” Putin said. Russia’s Army and Navy “are already being enhanced in all important segments,” Putin said, adding that “there are no doubts that we will become even stronger.” On equipment with new weapons Among Russia’s priorities will be equipping the nation’s military with new weapons, like the S-500 air and missile defence systems that are already being commissioned, Putin said. “We have carried out a successful trial of the Sarmat heavy ICBM. We expect the first such system to be commissioned before the end of this year,” he noted. The military will have to “widen the use of robotics, the latest means of command and reconnaissance, and drones,” and “actively develop weapons based on new physical principles,” including “laser, electromagnetic and other types of weapons. On officers’ most important task “Of course, working with the staff is the most important task,” the Russian leader emphasised. “I will quote a renowned military theorist, General Mikhail Dragomirov: ‘devotion to the Homeland and interests of the common cause are the main goal of a military education.” – TASS