The Herald Grace Chingoma-Senior Sports Reporter MIGHTY Warriors and Correctional Queens midfielder Marjoury Nyaumwe was the toast of the day after scoring six goals as her team ran riot with a 15-0 victory over Scorpion Queens at Pfupajena in Chegutu in a Zimbabwe Women’s Football League match over the weekend. Nyaumwe scored six goals while another former Mighty Warrior, Samukeliswe Zulu, scored four goals. Former Mighty Warriors striker Erina Jeke also weighed in with a hat-trick. Vannessa Makoni and Loveness Kwicho scored a goal each to complete a perfect day for Correctional Queens. The Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services team is in fourth position in the Super League, nine points behind pacesetters Black Rhinos Queens. They were the latest team to thrash the Chegutu side, Scorpions, who have let in 55 goals in seven matches they have played so far this season. Correctional Queens’s coach, Choice Dambuza, said they want to keep pressure on the leading pack and hope to capitalise on any slip-ups by the leading trio of Black Rhinos Queens, Herentals and Chapungu Queens. “It was a good game. We got our chances and we utilised them. These goals will count when it comes to goal difference at the end of the season. “We have not lost hope on the league title. We want to avoid further defeats and hope to recover and put pressure on the log leaders,” said Dambuza. Log leaders Black Rhinos Queens picked up maximum points on the road after beating Mutare City Queens 6-1 at Chisamba ground. Black Rhinos Queens, who are unbeaten, have 27 points from nine games. They have one game in hand. The army side’s goals came from midfielder Mavis Chirandu, who grabbed a brace, Daisy Kaitano, Mitchell Guri, Felistas Muzongondi and Lydia Mapunhure. Linet Maguyana scored the consolation goal for Mutare City Queens. Herentals Queens, two points behind the leaders Black Rhinos Queens, maintained the pressure with a 6-0 victory against Conduit Soccer Academy at Motor Action Sports Club. The Students Queens got their goals, courtesy of braces from Melanda Rungu and Melody Govha. Goalkeeper Lindiwe Magwede and Tabeth Mutinhiri also weighed in with a goal each. At Mkoba stadium, hosts Chipembere Queens lost 0-2 to Borrow Jets. Peacemore Kenende and Sicelo Ncube scored for the visitors. Results Mutare City Queens 1, Black Rhinos Queens 6; Chipembere Queens 0, Borrow Jets 2; Herentals Queens 6, Conduit Soccer Academy 0; Scorpion Queens 0, Correctional Queens 15.