The Herald Panashe Nyamudeza and Jennifer Mufamba The Swiss-Zimbimbabwe Business Chamber has appointed five new board members to steer the organisation’s operations aimed at promoting trade, business and economic cooperation between the European nation and Zimbabwe. Given that Switzerland is one of the leading European investors in Zimbabwe, the board members of the business chamber are expected to play an important role in ensuring that the trade relationship between the two countries flourishes. The new appointment follows departure from the board of two members. The new members include Raphael Curiger of Pure Africa, Luke Gomes, Managing Director of Nestlé Zimbabwe, Karen Chawatama of Roche Products Pvt Ltd, Nigel Drummond of Swiss Bioceutical and Geoffery Ndungwa, managing director of Lafarge Cement Zimbabwe. The new board members are expected to foster economic development in Zimbabwe working with diverse stakeholders including small and medium enterprises, international corporations and the Zimbabwean government, to market the country and its engagement of foreign partners. Swiss Ambassador to Zimbabwe Ambassador Niculin Jager said the success behind Swiss companies was driven by their resilient approach when doing business. “Swiss companies are very resilient because they are not interested in quick profits but rather in investing, creating jobs, paying taxes and creating new opportunities. That is why they have this resilience approach when it comes to economic, financial and currency challenges,” said Mr Jager. He added that it was crucial that the business environment as Zimbabwe was adapting to global dynamics, which required its regulations to conform to the global changing world order. The managing director of Pure Africa Raphael Curiger said they were excited because things were starting to perk up in Zimbabwe, which has encouraged them, particularly in the tourism sector. “We have a great sense of excitement as things are beginning to pick up in Zimbabwe and it’s encouraging for us especially in the tourism sector and we hope that this momentum will be reflected and taken up in the context of the Swiss Zimbabwe Business Chamber as well. “We want to facilitate that Switzerland and Zimbabwe do more business together going into the future,” said Mr Curiger on behalf of the new Board. The Swiss-Zimbabwe Business Chamber, which was launched in June 2021, is a platform built to strengthen bilateral trade and investment ties between the two countries. On behalf of its members, the Chamber is especially committed to promoting and facilitating commerce between Switzerland and Zimbabwe and offers the latest insights on Zimbabwe policy and industry-specific developments, engages senior Swiss and Zimbabwe officials, and advocates on key commercial priorities. The Chamber is particularly dedicated to promoting and facilitating trade between Switzerland and Zimbabwe on behalf of its members, and provides the most up-to-date insights on Zimbabwe policy and industry-specific developments, engages senior Swiss and Zimbabwe officials, and advocates on key commercial priorities.