The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor UK-BASED Zimbabwean female sports journalist, Chipo Sabeta, has added another feather to her cap after winning the FIFA/CIES Network Award. The former Zimpapers Senior Sports Writer could not hide her elation after yet another milestone capped at FIFA Headquarters in Zurich, Switzerland, yesterday by legendary French coach Arsene Wenger. Sabeta, who completed the programme with Nelson Mandela University (Port Elizabeth, South Africa), was honoured by former Arsenal manager, Wenger. In her Esport project, the Nyanga-born journalist participated along with Damilola Bello (Nigeria), Gareth Corjee (South Africa), Casper Jangale (Malawi) and Daryll Roeffe (South Africa). Her group majored in critical factors needed for the successful implementation of the eSports League System in selected countries in Africa. She also tackled a critical analysis on the implementation of eSports League in selected countries in Africa as well as comparisons of success factors of eSports in other countries. Ahead of the award Sabeta made a presentation of her research at University of Neuchatel’s Law Building in Zurich yesterday. Sabeta, an award-winning investigative reporter and sports administrator, toured Neuchatel and the World Archery Centre & Olympic Museum in Lausanne and FIFA headquarters in Zurich. Speaking to The Herald from Zurich after receiving her award yesterday, Sabeta could not hide her excitement following her latest achievement. “This is just an amazing moment and one of the most important scenes of my professional career.  A big thank you to my superiors at Nelson Mandela University, who mentored and supported me, and my colleagues who had my back. Winning it (the award) as the best overall project at NMU was enough but I never anticipated that it was going to be the best project internationally (i.e from 12 FIFA/CIES universities across the world). ‘’I really value and respect this honour from this glorious institution. It is not an easy job to work in a male dominated industry. Women are generally relegated to kitchen roles but I will definitely push myself to be a better version of my work.” Back in Zimbabwe, Sabeta worked for the country’s biggest stables like The Sunday Mail, The Herald and H-Metro. She was one of the founding H-Metro journalists who served the tabloid with distinction. Sabeta also made history after she was appointed on the board of Team Zimbabwe UK as their Head of Communication and Marketing upon relocation to England. Under Team Zimbabwe UK, which is a community interest company, her task is to identify talented diaspora athletes who are ready to serve their country. These athletes are mainly Zimbabweans who were born in the UK but qualifying to represent their country of origin. A holder of Bachelor’s Degree in Media Studies and a National Diploma in Mass Communication from Harare Polytechnic School of Journalism, Sabeta is determined to represent Zimbabwe with pride wherever she is. Currently, she is specialising in sports management, digital marketing and scouting. She has covered and reported all sporting disciplines including football, netball, boxing and golf, among others. Sabeta covered the African Cup of Nations and FIFA World Cup finals between 2012 to 2019 before she relocated to the UK. Meanwhile, Tte CIES Football Observatory is a research group within the International Centre for Sports Studies (CIES), an independent study centre located in Neuchâtel, Switzerland. The CIES Football Observatory specialises in the statistical analysis of football. It was created in 2005 by Dr. Raffaele Poli and Dr. Loïc Ravenel.