The Herald Youth Interactive Writer A 21-year-old creative social entrepreneur, blogger and journalist, Thomson Thomson, has said that the social media has paid off from his side as he is earning a living from it. Thomson, who runs some of the popular social media pages which he said can’t disclose due to security reasons, revealed in an interview that at such a young age he has managed to achieve what his peers can only dreaming of. Some of his peers would be busy focusing on fashion while others on drugs, the talented genius said was happy because he is doing what he loves the most. “Yes, I run some of the popular sites but I can’t disclose the pages because people will think otherwise,” he said. “I sometimes get approached by some of the local celebrities to assist in pushing their pages and promoting their work from music, fashion to art works among others. Even various companies who would want to push their brands have also asked for my services. I must say I am earning a living.” Thomson said that he charges for his service and the results are legit. “During the lockdown in 2020 and 2021 where people were not allowed even to host shows or do their normal work, I could say that was my peak as I worked with some artistes and companies who wanted to stay relevant,” he said. “It was paying because most people were relying on social media for information and services.” He added that he didn’t go to school for social media content creation, but was driven by passion. “I taught myself and took advantage of the situation. I never went to school for the skills that , I have but it’s self-taught. “Sometimes I help clients create content and write scripts for them,” he said. The journalist who also writes for some local sites, is good at doing reels (Instagram videos). Thomson denied that he helps people to grow their following with fake likes. “I do genuine business and work with organic views and likes. Some choose to buy followers and likes, but the dangers are they won’t be organic and with time they end up disliking or unfollowing. “The best remedy is you just have to have genuine people commenting,” he said.