The Herald Gilbert Munetsi Boxing Correspondent BRENDON “Boika” Denes, a former World Boxing Organisation (WBO) Africa champion, is embroiled in controversy concerning contractual obligations following his decision to defy an agreement he signed with a US-based company. The former champion has a valid  five-year contract with Lionheart Boxing Productions, an integrated promotion and sports entertainment company that has its principal place of business in Kinnelon, New Jersey. After having fallen out with his former stable – Manyuchi Boxing Academy – at the lapse of their contract last year, Denes opted not to renew. He was thereafter signed by Lionheart through their chief finance officer, Edward Mendy (a tax attorney), for a five-year duration. However, the Zvishavane-based boxer decided to take part in a fight in India on May 27 this year without the consent of his handlers, a development that has not gone down well with the Americans. He fought Roman Zakirov, a boxer from Azerbaijan signed by an Indian manager, in an eight-round contest at Battle Grounds in New Delhi. Denes lost on points, putting a dent to his once clean record that stood at 9-0-0  before that match. He travelled with his former boss, Charles Manyuchi, who was his cornerman. Still without Lionheart’s blessings, he is now scheduled to partake in another fight in Russia on June 15 against an opponent identified as Vitaly Petryakov. This publication is in possession of a plan document that had earlier been drafted for Denes for 2022 whereby Lionheart would send US$500 for the boxer’s upkeep for the month of May. He was instructed to do a tune-up fight on May 21 on KK Promotions’ card in Namibia (which he ignored), after which he would travel to Oklahoma,United States, for a US$3 000 match at the Sugar Creek Casino. This, according to plans, would be followed by another assignment at Sam’s Town Casino in Las Vegas on September 3, from which the Zimbabwean pugilist would pocket US$5 000. Inarguably, Las Vegas is upheld as  the “Mecca” of world boxing and has remained every boxer’s dream to have fate take them there at some stage in their careers. “I advised Brendon against the India fight but he took it without my permission. Practically it was at short notice and he needed more time to prepare. “l also warned him they’d steal the fight from him unless he knocked the guy out. He did not want to listen. I hate that l was right. “From experience, l’d offered him a slower and safer path to the top but, alas, he thought he was invincible and decided to go after the quick money. “And now he has his record blemished. Let me hasten to say that contrary to his assertions, the decision of the jury favouring his opponent has nothing to do with racism. It’s the reality of boxing that promoters’ fighters get favoured at home. “If he thought India is bad, Russia is even worse.  The only way he will win there is if he knocks the guy out. “It’s really sad that Boika has no one to blame but himself,” mourned Mendy’, who says he has seen the same story many times before. He claimed his associates and him built world record knockouts for Tyrone Brunson, but the boxer went on to file for bankruptcy to exit the contract. Other examples, he said, were Troy Browning (21-0) and Antonio Mesquita (33-0). Mendy this week engaged the Zimbabwe National Boxing and Wrestling Control Board, querying why they sanctioned the India and Russia fights for “Boika” when they fully knew he was signed to them. “I’m aggrieved by the fact that the Zimbabwe National Boxing and Wrestling Control Board approved Brendon’s fight in India and it led to his first loss. “l understand that he is also planning to fight in Russia and wish to file a complaint… Complaint against Brendon, Manyuchi, the event promoter and the matchmaker (if the board can exercise jurisdiction over them). “You were not supposed to approve the fight without my consent as you fully know that the boxer is signed to a promotional contract under Lionheart. “You are on notice that if you do the fight without my permission, you are interfering with my contract and l reserve all rights available to me under the law,” Mendy wrote to Lawrence Zimbudzana, the ZNBWCB Chief Executive Officer, on Thursday. Contacted for comment, Zimbudzana confessed ignorance on the existence of a contract between Denes and Lionheart, telling The Herald: “The contract he is purporting to have signed with Brendon Denes was not favoured to us, so we are not aware of the official position with regards the relationship between the two. “According to Zimbabwean regulations, if a boxer signs a contract there is a period by which they are expected to file it with the board, at most two weeks of signing it if there are no issues warranting a delay. After that, that’s when the agreement becomes valid. “I don’t know how then their contract can apply to Zimbabwe because its validity should start when they have filed with us, which unfortunately did not happen in this particular instance. “We just heard it being talked about in the corridors about the two parties having some contractual arrangement but we were not favoured and are not formally aware.” Lionheart have argued that unlike boxer-manager commitments, promoter contracts are never filed with a boxing control board. Zimbudzana said his commission was also not privy to the Denes-Manyuchi alliance as they did not have in their possession a written document to cement it. Describing their traveling to India together as “a gentleman’s arrangement”, he alluded to the fact that optional arrangements could be made outside the provisions of the law and people could work with that. “We, therefore, cannot bar anyone working with persons of their desire,” he said. Denes’ response was curt when reached for comment. “Let’s not talk about Russia, boss. Dzimwe nzendo ngatitaure tadzoka (Some missions are best discussed when we are back).”