The Herald Thupeyo Muleya Beitbridge Bureau A NEW bus terminal that was constructed at the Beitbridge border post under the ongoing US$300 million modernisation programme opened to traffic yesterday. Since the project started 18 months ago, border efficiency and its management system, which had become a perennial headache as traffic built up on both sides of the border, have been steadily improving. The Beitbridge border post is being transformed in three phases under a 17,5-year concession involving the Government and the Zimborders Consortium. As part of the agreement, the consortium will manage the infrastructure and recoup its invested money through the collection of user fees, while the Government is offering land and technical services. The project is being rolled out in three phases with the freight terminal, ICT facilities and roads in phase one; the buses and light motor vehicles terminals in phase two, and the offsite works including the upgrading of water and sanitation facilities in Beitbridge town in the final phase. Zimborders Consortium chief executive officer, Mr Francois Diedrechsen, said they had completed phase one and part of phase two and so the focus moves to the inland port works, which is the light vehicles terminal. “Today the buses’ terminal went live at 8am and many buses and light vehicles are now transiting through this point,” he said. “We phased the construction works to ensure that the civil works do not disturb the operations of this port of entry.” The flow of commercial traffic has been improving since October last year with trucks increasing from around 600 to 900 daily. The volume of commercial cargo will continue to surge especially upon completion of all the inland port works. Mr Diedrechsen said they were now focusing on the construction of the light vehicles terminal that will be completed by the end of November this year. “On the out-of-port works, we are almost completing the fire station, animal plant and quarantine centre, 11,4 megalitres water reservoir, sewer oxidation dam, and 220 staff houses. Most of these works will wind up in April next year.” Mr Diedrechsen said transporters and travellers won’t feel the pain of border user fees, since the cost will be offset by improving efficiencies. The consortium’s general manager, Mr Nqobile Ncube, said they had employed more than 1 600 Zimbabweans through the course of the project. He said besides employment creation, the Beitbridge community will also benefit from the key infrastructure including a fire station, a sewer oxidation dam, and improvement of water infrastructure that falls under the out-of-port works. “There is an aspect of community beneficiation to this project. You will realise that we have created 1 600 jobs for Zimbabweans,” said Mr Ncube. “This does not only bring remuneration to the employees but also skills transfers, considering that when the contractor is done, we will have a number of locals who will have been empowered with a number of technical skills they may use for life.” He said they will continue to hire more people to carry out operations at the three border terminals, with 62 already having been hired to manage the bus terminal. In separate interviews, truck drivers said they had started witnessing changes in the turnaround times at the border. “Since the opening of the new freight terminal that is dedicated to commercial cargo, we have noted an improvement,” said Mr Luckson Chikoto. “We no longer spend three or five days crossing the border. Provided you have all the documents and have done pre-clearance, you won’t spend more than three hours here. This means we can have more trips and more bonuses per month.” Another driver, Mr Joseph Hlalo, said most of them were now doing more trips and it was very critical considering that some salaries are pegged on the loads they carry. “We are happy with the changing state of affairs. In the last few years using the Beitbridge border post was traumatising,” said Mr Hlalo. He said they were hoping things could get even better upon completion of all the civil works. Chairperson of the Beitbridge Business Expo, Dr Anna Muleya, commended Government for transforming the country and Sadc’s busiest inland port of entry and exit. “I think it’s wonderful the border has been upgraded so beautifully with world-class facilities,” said Dr Muleya. “It will make the entry into our town and the country at large something to be proud of. Now, I just hope the beautiful buildings mean functional systems and that the authorities will be able to have more control of the border and reduce crime and rent-seeking activities.” The acting head of Immigration Services at Beitbridge, Mr Trustworthy Manatsire, said recently that they had started witnessing the fruits of the project, especially from the separation of traffic. He said traffic separation was a key goal considering that the service will now be sector-based. “You will note that previously as the Department of Immigration, we used to clear everyone at a single spot, including commercial truckers, pedestrians, buses, light vehicles and transit traffic. But under this new setup, issues of border management and efficiency are improving as we seek to completely do away with congestion,” said Mr Manatsire. Prior to the current modernisation works, the lack of appropriate infrastructure and non-automation of the border post had in previous years created bottlenecks to the efficient movement of cargo and people. Service providers including the Zimbabwe National Road Administration, the police, and Agriculture plant, Immigration, Environmental Management Authority, Port Health, Zimra, and security agencies had to share limited space in one building. It is understood that the human resources, commitment, and efficiency-based mindset of all border-based personnel are going to be very critical in delivering service that matches the world-class infrastructure.