The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter THE upcoming Mashwede Holdings Road Race has received a considerable response from athletes as over 100 participants had confirmed their participation by yesterday morning. The inaugural road race will have 5km and 10km races for juniors, who are Under-20, the professional race, Seniors and the Grandmaster category for athletes over 60 years and above who will run within the High Glen area. Set for tomorrow morning in Harare’s high-density suburb of Budiriro, the event was organised by Collen Makaza of Mr Pace Athletics Club who said their aim was to bring athletics to communities. They also successfully staged another race in Chitungwiza early this year. Makaza, a two time Two-Oceans Marathon winner in South Africa, believes the race will help the youths to take athletics as a career and to reduce drug abuse. “We have received a reasonable response from the athletes and we are positive all will go on well on Sunday. There will be a lot of prizes and hampers for the athletes. “The idea is to give athletes a chance to compete and make sure that we promote junior development and we are grateful that Mashwede Holdings have decided to partner us as sponsors. “The race could not be successful without the support of Mashwede Holdings as they have provided the venue and prize monies. We came up with the event to curb drug abuse in the high-density suburbs and give some corporates an opportunity to give back to the community. “There will be a new race, the baby dash for kids under-two-years who will be racing for 50 metres and there will be the couples Fun Run run as well,” said Makaza. The race has seen several top athletes registering and they are expected to turn up. In the women’s category, Patience Murowe will be favourite in the 10km but will face competition from other athletes who have been taking part in 21km and full marathon events. Winners will walk away with different prizes with the main winner walking home US$200 richer as the runner-up will get US$100 and third-placed US$50 while the winner in the juniors will win US$50. Several athletes will take the race as a precursor to the Tanganda Half-Marathon and the Econet Victoria Falls Marathon.