The Herald Lesego Valela-Youth Interactive Writer NINETEEN-year-old Gokwe upcoming artiste Chrispen Shurugwi has called for equal opportunities as those in big cities such as  Harare so that their dreams come true. Chrispen and his brother Rodwell (20) who have taken a life-changing step by getting into the music industry, believe it is up to them to put the small town on the map, but would like to see support from the media too. The two who hail from Nembudziya, Gokwe and are affectionately known as “Frizzy N Frisky” visited The Herald Youth Interactions office and shared their story They have been in the music industry for the past two years and have released new songs building up to a full album. The duo said they have experienced challenges in their quest to  produce an album which they said was a mammoth task due to financial constraints and  lack of studios in Gokwe. “The songs we have released so far, include: “Varidzi Verudzi”, “Chipo Ngwarira” and “Botopo”. They have been out for the past two years though they didn’t do well on the airwaves,” said Chrispen. Asked to explain what inspired the songs he says, “The song ‘Varidzi verudzi”’ describes the mistakes that were done by our parents which are now affecting us the children. ‘“Chipo ngwarira’, is about seeing how my sisters have been going to bars and drinking a lot, we were motivated to make a song out of that. “The last song ‘Bopoto’, talks of how parents have been against supporting their children’s talents’’, he said. The Shurugwi brothers talked of the appreciation they have towards their parents who have supported them in their journey. “I would like to thank my parents for giving us a chance to follow our dream of being artistes. At first they used to discourage us, as they considered it as losing focus but our song allowed them to give us an opportunity seeing that it  had a powerful meaning, “ he said. Through the help of Lbtyzoe, who is their producer , they are expecting to release their fourth song soon. Chrispen said many people have looked down upon them seeing that they are from Gokwe, but their aim is to change that perspective and show their talent. “There are so many children out there who would like to follow their dreams and they should never feel discouraged but instead follow their dreams”, he advised.