The Herald Tinashe Nyamushanya Youth Interactive Writer Fashion is the art of application of design and aesthetics or natural beauty to clothing and accessories. It is influenced by cultural and social latitudes and has varied over time and price. It involves a set of skills that range from market research and creativity to sketching and fabric selection. They say revelation brings elevation. When a young energetic boy who’s making some noise at the university, Evison Tendai Sunguro, a Tourism and Hospitality student at Chinhoyi University of Technology (CUT) ,  has caused a stir with his fashion brand “Tobhura.” He is passionate about creativity,personal growth and uplifting others and also loves cooking, music and adventure. His life is centered on integrity, passion and honesty which are his core values. In an interview, Sunguro said his main agenda with fashion is to raise funds for his college career as well as to change the fashion narrative for the students. “I grew up in Harare, Kuwadzana born in a family of two. I decided to make myself a branded T-shirt. Many students at CUT were falling for it. I realised that this is the way to go l can even make more for people,” he said. His collection is all about glamorous and luxurious textiles such as T-shirts, bucket hats, vest, hoodies, sweaters characterised by colourful and matching accessories, which fashion critics have said are a great way to break up the dark. “To me, it is the way I live because it’s the first thing you do when you wake up in the morning and you want to feel good about yourself. The way you dress is how you express yourself to the world. You might feel incompatible, but your style is one way that shows your individual uniqueness.” Amid the pressure from school work as well as the prevailing hard times in our existence, it became an opportunity to encourage his peers with the simple phrase ‘Tobhura’ meaning “we thrash or defeat utterly”. “It became our word of encouragement, mantra and a mindset up until the day one of my colleagues reviewed his bigger picture pertaining to the motion.” He said that he designed the brand last year in July. Apart from fashion, Sunguro is a freelance graphic artist as well as director of visual and performing arts incorporated in the YAY Content Creators. He is also inspired by international labels such as Nike and New Balance. Asked to share some of the challenges he is facing, he said: “You know when you’re doing side hustles at school you face a lot of things and challenges. Some of these include lack of funds is a major challenge since everything needs money, negative criticism you know when you’re at campus when you come up with an idea, you receive a lot of criticism,” he said. “Some will look down upon you. But the greatest thing is to move forward with your hustle. Looking at our niche, every stage of production requires financial support up to the marketing stage. Be that as it may, local support is still something we are longing for. It is a long process to win the hearts of many as ‘no prophet is accepted in his own land’ and people are inclined to take for granted the things and people they are familiar with,” he explained. As word of advice, he said; “Never stop chasing your dream, the sky is the limit. Always remember that ‘We Rise By Raising Each Other.”’