The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter Renowned disc jockey Bernard Fato, affectionately known as DJ Iroq, has been roped in to add a magical touch to the “Redefined Concert” featuring Jah Prayzah, Winky D and Nutty O at Harare International Conference Centre on June 18. Hosted by Gateway Stream Music, the concert will have three artistes and a disc jockey and will end at 10pm, organisers have said. In an interview with The Herald Arts, DJ Iroq said it was a great opportunity to market local music apart from having those three playing live. DJ Iroq, who is not new to such concerts, has played for some of the major shows locally and is remembered for the Big Brother All Stars party. “I perform way better at HICC as it is like home to me,” he said. “I am going to be adding the magic music touch to the concert. “My job as the only disc jockey at the show to play music and this is a great opportunity to give exposure to the upcoming and established artistes as the show is of high magnitude.” DJ Iroq said has done more than 10 gigs and has also worked with some of the artistes performing at the Redefined Concert. “I have shared the stage with Jah Cure, Koffi Olomide, Bennie Man, Davido, Diamond Platinumz, Mafikizolo, Roberto, Winky D, Macheso, Jah Prayzah,” he said. “I have already prepared my playlist too and ready for the show. “Being on the turntables, to me it is not a hobby, but that is my job.” Gateway Stream Music manager Elton Kurima said they chose DJ Iroq because of his expertise. “He is the only disc jockey who would be playing because as we have structured the set, it is only three artistes, one after the other,” he said. “However, he will be playing during the change session, when the next act will be preparing. “The way we had arranged it is different from the usual set up. We wanted his taste and difference in selection.” Already, with the poster release of the three artistes, there were some arguments and divisions among fans on the design of the poster. Kurima said it was difficult to please everyone, but they had done their best and the three artistes were happy with the layout and progress so far. “Tickets have started selling at the designated points and we are expecting fireworks this week,” he said. “The stage design has already been done and it’s not the fancy or multi-faced. We just did something comfortable with the artiste that can make the show great.”