The Herald Dylan Dzenga Youth Interactive Writer With modernisation and times changing, many youths are now focusing on what they know best and prefer doing, than what the society thinks is best for them. Most parents have become supportive of their children venturing into the art industry while some do not. Seon Doka is a 19-year-old boy who developed a passion for painting and pencil artistry at a very tender age. “For the love of it, I taught myself how to paint, draw and make sculptures when I was very young. I finally got assistance when I was in form one by my teacher at St Augustine’s High School,” said Seon. Just like many other people in the same industry, they all have a common challenge, which is publicity and support. Doka managed to join Hillock Arts Foundation where he is being coached and nurtured by Raphael Jamu. Through his journey with Jamu, Seon has a national gallery certificate in the painting field. Seon is an Advanced Level Science pupil at a boarding school in Nyanga and tries to balance schoolwork and his favourite hobby, painting. “When other pupils go to the grounds to play after school, I prefer seating down and start painting and drawing,” he said. For most parents, having a child studying sciences is a blessing and they would do anything to make sure they stay on track in that line of work, but for Seon’s mother, it is a whole different case. Joanah Doka is a single mother of two boys working as a teacher and trying to raise her two boys while supporting their ddreams. “For my son, he has always admired art since he was still in primary school, I would have sent him to an art school but failed because of financial constraints, so sciences were option B for him,” she explained. The mother is very proud of her son’s works of art and has been doing all she could to make her son’s dreams come true. Like many other young artists, Seon has challenges getting painting tools and materials. These materials can be very scarce and hard to find in most parts of Zimbabwe making it hard for artists like Seon with no access to order outside the country. “…especially in my hometown of Mutare, sometimes I order from Harare when my mom has money to purchase the tools., Seon said The Zimbabwean economy and work industry has been opening up for such creative talents like that of Seon Doka and mostly for those who do wildlife and environment portraits. The art industry, although still in the shadows, has been getting more recognition and appreciation from the Zimbabwean public.