The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter FELISITUS Kwangwa’s hard work and determination is paying dividends after she bagged the Coach’s Player of the Season Award at her Vitality Netball Superleague club Surrey Storm in England. The Zimbabwe senior netball team – the Gems – captain had more game-time in the just-ended 2022 season and her contribution didn’t go unnoticed as she was recognised for her efforts. This was Kwangwa’s second season with Surrey Storm after the club re-signed her and she did not disappoint, helping the team to finish seventh in the Vitality Netball Superleague this season. In announcing the winner of the award, Surrey Storm coach, Mikki Austin, said the award represents a player who has shown the most improvement. “This award represents a player who has shown the most improvement across the entirety of the 2022 VNSL Superleague season. “It goes to someone who has demonstrated growth, coachability and the potential to put in some match-winning performances. “When this athlete returned from the summer break, it was clear that she had done the complete opposite of that. She was fitter, stronger and more determined than ever to put in some solid minutes on a VNSL court this year and she has reaped the rewards of that. “This year’s 2022 VNSL Coach’s Player of the Season award goes to Felisitus Kwangwa for her match-winning performances, sheer determination and growth to improve and her ability to take on board coach’s instruction and put that into practice against some of the world’s best goal attacks.” Despite missing the team’s pre-season preparations for the 2022 season due to some delays to her departure for England from Zimbabwe, Kwangwa proved herself through her exploits on the court. The Zimbabwean goal defender also got the Player-of-the-Match award in one of their matches during the just-ended season. Speaking to The Herald yesterday, Kwangwa could not hide her joy and she believes there is still more to come from her. “This award means a lot to me as an individual because it really shows how my hard work was appreciated, how I have grown as a player, which has been one of my dreams, to grow. “And probably I believe one day I will get where I am willing to get as a player because I feel like this is just the beginning, there is a lot coming my way. “To be honest, I never expected this award though I was just happy this season that I got more court-time, and I was part of the starting seven most of the times which was good. “But in terms of me expecting the award, no, I wasn’t but I am just glad my coach saw the improvement, the growth in me. And one of the compliments that I love the most from them was that I am a good listener. “So it really shows that you have gotten to a certain level as a player where your coach can tell you that you are now playing according to their instructions. “And I feel as a player, most of the time it’s not like we don’t want to play according to the coach’s instructions but we will be trying our best though the outcome won’t look that way to our coaches at some point. “I hope it’s an indication of more good times (to come) with the club,” said Kwangwa. Surrey Storm had an improved season to finish on position seven in the 11-team league. They managed 11 wins unlike last year when they settled for position 10 with just three victories. Kwangwa attributed the strides they are making as a club to an improved bond within the team. “I feel like we have done better this season as compared to last season. I think the reason why things were like that this season it’s because that bond as a team or that partnership as a team has grown unlike last season where we were just trying to understand each other. “It was more of a rebuilding process. “And I think we are still in that process but at a better level as compared to last season. And hopefully in the next seasons, this same squad is going to remain in the same place or at the same club, so that we grow or we improve as a team,” said Kwangwa. Her contract expires this month but she remains positive about the future.