The Herald Miriam Nyasha Kwari Herbalist Hello, friends, and welcome back to another edition of “your health is your wealth,” hosted by Nyasha, the herbalist. I have planned a very interesting talk for you today. As usual, I encourage you to contact me so that we may discuss herbal remedies and how to use food to help you become the healthiest embodiment of yourself. Peanuts A nut is a dry fruit with one or two edible kernels enclosed in a hard shell. The following are examples of nuts: Peanuts are legumes, they are classified as nuts due to their similar characteristics to other tree nuts. The modern peanut is a cultigen from a wild legume that evolved on the southern slopes of the Andes in South America. Buying peanuts in their shells guarantees a fresher nut, and smashing your own nuts is preferable. Peanut oil should be purchased in modest quantities and kept in the refrigerator because it is soon rancid. Peanuts are high in healthful monounsaturated fats, which protect the cardiovascular system by lowering bad cholesterol while maintaining good cholesterol. Peanuts and peanut oil can be found in a variety of commercial products, including mayonnaises, salad dressings, sauces, candies and biscuits, curries, soups, margarines, spreads, and canned sardines, as well as baked goods of all kinds and even cosmetics! Those sensitive to peanuts should read labels carefully because the oil is commonly referred to as arachis oil or groundnut oil. The benefits of eating peanuts The aging process weakens various bones in our bodies.  As a result, you should prioritise consuming healthy foods like peanuts before your bones begin to deteriorate. Manganese and phosphorus are abundant. These minerals and other vitamins found in peanuts will help you maintain the strength of your bones as you age. So there you have it, Friends. Please remember to eat responsibly in order to maintain a balanced and healthy diet. We have opened a shop in the Eastgate Market, stall G48. Come in and check out our herbal medicines and teas. May God bless you as you continue to look after yourselves. Until we meet again. 