The Herald Gilbert Munetsi
Boxing Correspondent
WORLD Boxing Council (WBC) interim super-bantamweight champion Kudakwashe “Take Money” Chiwandire is set to pocket the biggest pay cheque of her career when she faces Mexican Zulina Munoz (58-W52; KO30-L4-D2) in a mandatory defence contest at the Harare International Conference Centre on August 20. The tournament — the first such for Zimbabwe and third for Africa — is dubbed “Fire in the Hole”, and has nine supporting bouts which include two African Boxing Union matches and a national title fight. Promoter Clyde Musonda of Delta Force Boxing Academy yesterday announced at a ceremony in Harare that Chiwandire, a poor-girl-makes-good boxing sensation from Chikomba West in Mashonaland East Province, will walk home US$20 000 richer after the event. The Government, through the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation, has since pledged to provide financial and technical support for this mega-event whose budget has been set at US$197 000. A number of corporates are also expected to come on board to support with KGK Logistics, Genau, Gypsite, Cars05 and Pro Fitness having already subscribed to a partnership. Apart from the Latin American opponent for the main bout (Munoz), other countries participating in this tournament are Namibia, South Africa, the DRC, Zambia, Malawi, Botswana and Kenya. Sports Minister, Kirsty Coventry, yesterday harped on the importance of the event both economically and in terms of mileage for the country. In a speech read on her behalf by the chief executive officer of the Zimbabwe National Boxing and Wrestling Board, Lawrence Zimbudzana, she said: “The event will increase continental and global visibility of the country through media coverage which will be shared in over 190 countries affiliated to the WBC… it is an opportunity to take the Zimbabwean story from a Zimbabwean perspective. “As such, there is the possibility of a contribution to the generation of revenue through media rights, sponsorship, partnerships and live streaming. An estimate revenue of at least US$250 000 will be generated directly through tourism receipts and, indirectly, through other economic activities around this event.” The Minister alluded to the fact that the improved performance of the sport of boxing in the country hinged on a creation of opportunities through activity, hence their participation in continental and international fights was vital. “This event provides a platform for our fighters to face the best in the world and in the continent,” she said. Going into the fight as an underdog though with home advantage to her side, Chiwandire faces an opponent who is rated the third best active female bantamweight boxer in the world. Nicknamed “La Loba” (The Wolf), the 35 year-old Latino, Munoz, debuted as a professional in 2005, winning her first major title, the WBC-NABF the following year. She has also won and defended the WBC international and WBC silver titles several times. On the other hand, “Take Money’’ has eight fights to her career, five of which were wins (KO4), two loses and a single draw. The biggest highlight of her career was stunning Zambian and former world champion Catherine Phiri in her own backyard and bringing home the first ever WBC female title to Zimbabwe. Responding to assertions that her handlers may have thrown her into the deep-end this time around considering the rich record of her opponent, Chiwandire yesterday seemed unfazed. She made reference to her previous opponent Phiri who, prior to their meeting on February 26 in Lusaka, Zambia, boasted of an equally impressive record, but she managed to make her “bite the dust.” “I’m particularly excited about this fight because I’m defending the title in Zimbabwe, something that has always been my dream as a boxer. “As a mother, woman and young lady, I hope the hosting of this event will continue to inspire more persons of the female gender regardless of their sporting discipline of choice,” she said. Chiwandire recently received US$15 000 from President Mnangagwa for beating Zambia’s Phiri in their title fight in February. Meanwhile, Enock “Cho cho cho” Musambudzi comes out of hibernation to face Meshack Mwankemwa of Namibia for the ABU middleweight championship that is the main supporting bout to the Chiwandire-Munoz duel. A former Stalin Mau Mau product, Musambudzi has an unblemished record of 12-0, but if history is anything to go by, he has a tall order ahead of him. Less than five local boxers have managed to beat Namibians both at home and away. Musambudzi’s former stable-mate at Mau Mau Boxing, Zvikomborero Danzwa, finally takes a shot at a continental title, having held on to the national title for a number of years. She has a date with Mellissa Miller (21-W6-L12-D3) of South Africa. Jeremiah “Jingo” Mhere engages in yet another grudge match against Tinashe “Chairman” Mwadziwana for the national super-featherweight title over 10 rounds. The rest of the bout card is as follows: Tatenda Biningu (Zim) v Boniface Zengela (DRC) — Super-featherweight Anisha Basheel (Mal) v Catherine Mulyata (Zam) — Lightweight Brendon Denes (Zim) v Kagiso Bagwasi (Bots) — Super-welterweight Freeman Mabvongwe (Zim) v Emmanuel Mungandjela — Super-welterweight Simon Madanhire (Zim) v Bernard Adie (Kenya) — Heavyweight Monica Mkandla (Zim) v Patience Mastara (Zim) — Super-bantamweight