The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter Herentals Queens . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(0)2 Black Mambas Queens . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 HERENTALS Queens are back at the summit of the Women’s Super League football table following this victory at Motor Action Sports Club yesterday. Second half goals by Bridget Mutaurwa and substitute Fortunate Nyoka helped the Students bag all the points. It was especially sweet for coach Stephen Mudawapi’s charges who dropped points in their goalless draw against Mutare City last weekend. That slip allowed Chapungu to overtake them at the top of the table but Herentals had a game in hand over the Air Force of Zimbabwe side. And they put in maximum work to ensure the outstanding match counted with the win yesterday. The Students, with 18 points to their name, are now sitting three points against Chapungu Queens. With the two teams looking balanced on paper, they sought to minimise risk in the first half and there were no real scoring chances to write home about. However, the match opened up in the second half with Mambas threatening to break the deadlock but they found Lindiwe Magwede, in goals for Herentals, in her usual top form. At the opposite end, Mutaurwa, a constant threat throughout the match then nodded home from a corner to open the scoring for Herentals Queens on the hour mark. Thirteen minutes later, Nyoka unleashed a beautiful free-kick that beat both the wall and Mambas goalie Christine Chinhamo. Mudawapi hailed his charges while his opposite number Martin Bonongwe acknowledged he lost to a better side. Teams Herentals: Lindiwe Magwede, Bridget Mutaurwa, Clara Mushawembizi (Fortunate Nyoka 57th min),Talent Mukwanda, Tabeth Mutinhiri, Yeukai Chipatiko, Nyasha Munemo, Polite Manuka, Loveness Mukura, Melanda Rungu (Grace Kazembe 84th min), Praynence Zvawanda (Rutendo Chatumbika 88th min). Mambas: Christine Chinhamo, Lina Dube, Linda Kabayadondo, Tania Tagarira, Belinda Veremu (Memory Mufoya 57th min), Belinda Sibanda, Alert Khumalo, Tafadzwa Tsunguro, Samukeliso Moyo, Noreen Kodzwa, Lisa Tapiringana.