The Herald Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S Gems suffered a double blow on the second day of the Confederation of Southern Africa Netball Associations (COSANA) Tri-Nations when they lost their matches against Malawi and Namibia yesterday at Kuhes Sports Complex in Blantyre, Malawi. The Gems first lost 34-38 to Namibia in the morning. They went on to suffer their second defeat at the hands of Malawi, when they went down 23-45 in a game dominated by the hosts. Malawi are the best ranked team at the tournament and yesterday they maintained their dominance over Zimbabwe. The Gems struggled to contain their opponents and the hosts went into half time leading 23-12. The third quarter ended 35-16 as Malawi stretched their lead. There wasn’t much challenge from the Gems in the last quarter and Malawi went on to win the game 45-23. After a promising start on Sunday when they defeated Namibia in their opening encounter at the tournament, Zimbabwe had hoped to build on that going into yesterday’s games. But it was a different story as they lost both matches. Going into the game against Malawi, Zimbabwe were out chasing for a win after going down to Namibia in their first game of the day but just like in their previous meetings, Malawi proved to be the better side. The loss to Namibia was more disappointing considering the Gems had beaten them on Sunday. It was their second meeting during this tournament. Gems coach Ropafadzo Mutsauki made four changes to the team that played on Sunday for yesterday’s game against Namibia. He said the idea is to try different combinations during these games since its part of their preparation for the World Cup qualifiers. “This loss gives us an insight of where we are lacking and it helps as we are trying to identify the best and effective combinations within the team. “We are making changes because we want to try different combinations, that’s why we made four changes,” Mutsauki said. The first quarter ended 10-8 in favour of Namibia. They held on to their lead to go into half time leading 20-14. Goal shooter Paidamoyo Tinoza and goal attack Chipo Shoko led the attack in the first two quarters before Mutsauki made some changes in the third quarter hoping to turn the tables in their favour. He brought in Tafadzwa Mawango and Tafadzwa Matura, who made the starting seven on Sunday. Beaula Hlungwani also came in for Ursula Ndlovu on wing attack. However, the damage had already been done as Namibia remained in control of the game and were 29-25 up in the third quarter and Zimbabwe went on to lose the game 34-38. “I think we lost so many chances in the first quarter. If you fail to utilise the opportunities you get, it will cost you and it puts you under pressure and you lose the game. “I think the first combination we used failed to contain the pressure from the opponent and pressure from the umpires and it affected the team. “By the time we tried to adjust and make changes it was too late and there was so much pressure and under such circumstances it seems like every decision by the umpires is against you. Of course, to some extent the umpires contributed on this loss. “But we cannot just say we lost because of the umpires. When there is a bias in terms of officiating, you need to adjust and you don’t waste your chances, you don’t waste your centre passes, that’s where we lost the game,” said Mutsauki.