The Herald Sports Reporter FORMER COSAFA president Philip Chiyangwa might have retired from active football administration but his services are still very much needed, with CAF president Patrice Motsepe expressing his desire to continue working with the Harare businessman. Chiyangwa, who also had a stint as ZIFA president relinquished his COSAFA role in Windhoek, Namibia last month, having been voted into office in 2016. Angola’s Artur de Almeida e Silva has since taken over the reins after he was elected, unopposed for the position. Motsepe was supposed to attend the elective congress but had other pressing commitments. The CAF leader actually met President Mnangagwa in Davos, Switzerland during the World Economic Forum at around the same time and the two discussed various developmental issues. And Motsepe is looking forward to meeting Chiyangwa as he expressed his interest in continuing to work with him. Motsepe wrote to Chiyangwa this week expressing gratitude to the service the Zimbabwean has given to Southern African football in particular and the whole African continent in general. “Allow me firstly to thank you for the outstanding work you did as president of COSAFA and the leadership you provided in developing football in COSAFA and on the African continent. “I was hoping to see you in Namibia so that I could personally express my gratitude to you,” wrote Motsepe. “I had a discussion with President Mnangagwa in Davos, Switzerland during the World Economic Forum and we also spoke about the historical and emotional history of the people of Zimbabwe and South Africa. “You and I must continue to build and expand on the history of mutual loyalty and trust for the benefit of the people in our two countries and on the African continent. I look forward to seeing you.” Chiyangwa served the 14-nation bloc with distinction, managing to organise and superintendent over COSAFA tournaments even during the years when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak. Artur de Almeida also thanked Chiyangwa “I am delighted to have been given the trust and confidence of COSAFA nations to lead the organisation for the next four years,” Artur de Almeida said. “I must thank the outgoing leadership under president Philip Chiyangwa for the excellent work of the executive committee since their election in December 2016.”