The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter THE International Karate Organisation Nakamura Zimbabwe are this weekend scheduled to stage their third Champion of Champions tournament at the Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex. The tournament is returning after a two-year break due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It is set to feature participants from different full contact karate styles as well as other different types of martial arts. IKO Nakamura Zimbabwe Branch Chief, Sensei Tawanda Mufundisi, confirmed they will be holding the tournament on Saturday. Mufundisi said a number of participants from Zambia and Namibia have also expressed their interest to be part of the tournament. More than 300 participants are expected to be part of the one-day competition. “We anticipate the highest level of competition, technical wise, and the involvement of foreign teams boosts the event, giving our guys a good run for their money,” said Mufundisi. Mufundisi said a number of sponsors have come on board to support the tournament. “Now we can concentrate on our duties to develop our athletes unlike previously where we used to do everything from training the athletes and also fund-raise for them to attend events or to host them. “On the other hand, an athlete will train harder with confidence knowing that they will make it,” said Mufundisi. There are different weight divisions on offer ranging from Under-20kg to 50kg for the junior boys and girls. The seniors will compete in Under-60kg, Under-70kg, Under-80kg and Open weight division. Some of the styles expected to take part are Kyokushinkan, So-Kyokushin, Kyokushin Sonoda, Ashihara, Shorinji Kempo and Kyokushin Union, among other styles. Mufundisi said they are looking forward to the tournament, having failed to stage it in 2020 and 2021 because of the pandemic. “Registration has begun with our deadline set for the 23rd of June. The response is overwhelming with over 200 registered karatekas so far,” said Mufundisi. Zim Ninja Academy’s Wilfred Mashaya (Junior) is set to compete in this tournament. His father and instructor Wilfred Mashaya (Snr) said they are using the tournament to assess his capabilities in full contact karate.