The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe chess community have been honoured by the International Chess Federation (FIDE) after two local chess officials, Simbarashe Murimi and Fungirayiini Mushaninga, were invited to officiate at the 44th FIDE Olympiad to be held in Chennai, India, from July 28 to August 10. Zimbabwe’s only International Arbiter, Murimi, and National Arbiter, Mushaninga, will be part of the International Olympiad tournament. Murimi is one of two African Arbiters invited to adjudicate at the International Olympiad as he holds the International Arbiter (IA) Title which is the highest qualification in chess “refereeing’’ awarded by the international chess governing body, FIDE. He is also the current Zone 4.5 (SADC) Arbiters Chairman and has officiated in various chess events across Africa. He was part of the arbiters’ team at the 2008 Chess Olympiad in Dresden, Germany, before he was supposed to officiate in Moscow, Russia, at 2020 Olympiad later postponed to 2022 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On the other hand, Zimbabwe’s only female chess arbiter, Mushaninga, has been invited to play the role of Telecommunications Assistant. Mushaninga, a highly qualified telecommunications expert, currently works at Econet and is the Zimbabwe Chess Federation women chess director. Mushaninga also holds the title of National Instructor in the field of coaching. The Chess Olympiad is one of the biggest sporting events in the world, organised by the International Chess Federation (FIDE) as a biennial event. The tournament comprises of the Open and women’s tournaments as well as several events designed to promote the game of chess. The inclusion of IA Murimi and NA Mushaninga in the prestigious tournament is a great deal to the image of chess in Zimbabwe. Murimi said he is very excited with the invitation and will represent the country well. “I’m excited for receiving this invitation and it means a lot to me personally and to my chess arbitration career. There are so many excellent chess arbiters in the world and in Africa; and being one of two International Arbiters in Africa invited to the most glamorous chess competition in the world means a lot to me. I can’t express my joy for this prospect and I’m extremely grateful to FIDE for this gesture. I’m also happy for my colleague NA Mushaninga who was also invited to this competition.’’ Mushaninga said she was happy to be part of this year’s tournament. “I’m really excited for being selected to be part of the Olympic Fair Play Panel as a Telecoms expert. It is such a great honour to me as a lady, to be part of only 15 people worldwide who qualified to assist at the 44th World Chess Olympiad in India. This means a lot to me as a Telecoms expert and as a chess official. Am really grateful for this opportunity and am sure I’ll have the exposure to learn a lot that will benefit chess in the local sphere,” added Mushaninga.