The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter Organisers of the Victoria Falls Carnival (VFC) have announced 20 percent of discount as payment for next year’s edition to those who attended the carnival last month. This came a month and two weeks, after the VFC ended with Zimbabwean amapiano queen Charmaine Shamiso Mapimbiro (ShaSha), who is based in South Africa, DJ Maphorisa and Kabza De Small failing to pitch up at the show. The organisers have been trying to seek the reasons for their no-show so that they find an agreement with the artistes and fans, for progress’ sake and to earn their trust from fans ahead of the next edition. “It’s been six weeks since VFC 2022 and while an amazing energy lingers, we must apologise for our silence,” said organisers. “The truth is, we have been in litigation with our group headline act (DJ Maphorisa, Kabza De Small and ShaSha) who failed to make their performance at this year’s event. “Finally, we have received a statement from ShaSha. She has since changed management companies and we are currently in talks with her new management about how we can make her no-show up to her fans.” The organisers confirmed that to date they had not received any communication from Kabza De Small, DJ Maphorisa and Thulani Keupilwe from Lawk Communications. “We feel that they owe the carnival and all their fans an explanation as to why they decided not to arrive for their performance at Vic Falls Carnival, and we will not stop pursuing this matter until we get some answers,” they said. On the 20 percent discount for VFC 2023, the organisers said: “Tickets for 2023 to go on sale soon! Keep an eye on our socials for dates and further info.” ShaSha on Monday broke the ice by issuing a statement to the organisers, explaining why she short-changed the fans and organisers by not performing. It remains ambiguous why she took so long to respond to the allegations she was facing from fans and organisers, although she made it clear in her statement, owing to a change of management. Her previous management a week after the carnival announced that they had parted ways with ShaSha in March before she was booked for the carnival and that booking was done through South African Lawk who were working with her. In her statement, ShaSha confirmed that she was sorting herself. “Hello to all my friends and fans who attended this year’s Vic Falls Carnival,” she said. “I would like to apologise to you and to the festival too for not attending this year’s edition. “Over the past few months, there have been a lot of changes in my environment. A lot of you might have noticed my silence on social media too. It’s important that I share with you all that right now. “I am at a moment that marks the end of some things, but the wonderful beginnings of others too. In the middle of it all I was unable to fulfil my commitment to be part of the carnival. “I know this caused a lot of disappointment, but I am asking you to please trust me to make it up to you. My team and I are working hard to come up with a new plan together with the festival organisers who have been incredibly patient and supportive.”