The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe senior netball team’s goal attacker/shooter Paidamoyo Tinoza has made a remarkable comeback into the Gems fold. She has been out of the game for the past six years after taking a break following her marriage and subsequent child-birth. And the 28-year-old says she never thought one day she would meander her way back to the game that gave her everything she has today. Tinoza is part of the 12-member squad selected to do duty in the Confederation of Southern Africa Netball Association (COSANA) to be held in Malawi beginning this coming weekend. The same team, barring any eventualities, will also fly to Manchester, England, for an international friendly tournament next month as the Gems fine-tune for World Cup qualifiers to be staged in South Africa in August. They start their camp today. But it is the inclusion of Tinoza in the team that has attracted a lot of interest. This is a girl who had been written off after going for six years out of the game before making a decision to come back last year. This is a girl who even struggled on return to her club Glow Petroleum before putting in the work and regained her range. And it is not surprising that Tinoza is back on top of her game for netball is a sport that transformed her life right from rural Rushinga in Mt Darwin to a top managerial position at one of the leading energy companies, Glow Petroleum. Losing her father at a tender age, Tinoza grew up under the care of her maternal grandparents attending Chiromo and Gwangwava schools for her primary and secondary school education. She was bright in school and passed her O’ Levels. She was on her way to pursue a different career path upon leaving Gwangwava Secondary School as she thought there would be no netball post school life. However, all that changed after she was noticed during the 2010 provincial games by Zimbabwe Netball Association president, Leticia Chipandu. “I saw a complete player, someone who could be nurtured and become a national asset. Of course she had gaps but I could see she was a raw diamond,” said Chipandu. “We discussed her as she mesmerized, for her province, doing a fine job as she netted goals for her team.” And everything changed for Tinoza. On Chipandu’s recommendation, Tinoza got a scholarship at Pamushana High School in Masvingo. “It was surreal for me. Just like that, I was on my way to Advanced Level. I had passed my Ordinary Level and I didn’t even imagine myself going for A Level. “But, there I was, on my way to a top school like Pamushana. That’s how my story started,” said Tinoza. So good was the lanky player she was even selected for the national team that very year and clubs were jostling for her signature. Meanwhile, she attained 11 Points in Commercial subjects, prompting Glow Petroleum to also give her a university scholarship at Midlands State University between 2013 and 2017. “After completing my A’ Levels, I was signed by Glow Petroleum who then awarded me a university scholarship. But, they were also giving me a salary for playing. “Everything was just going fine. I was doing business management, majoring in finance.” On graduating, she was offered a job by Glow Petroleum as a manager for their Gokwe Branch. And in 2017, Tinoza took a long break from netball, dealing a blow to both her club and the national team she had served for seven consecutive years. Now based in Shurugwi where she is area manager for Glow Petroleum, Tinoza is back in the game that defines her life. “I told my husband that I was returning to netball last year and he agreed. I am playing for Glow Petroleum and being selected into the national team is remarkable. “I had written myself off and to be in this team, well, I can’t explain how I am feeling. I am very happy and I think, at 28, I still have a lot to offer to the team. “I will work very hard for the team and try to help them qualify for the World Cup. “I would like to urge other talented girls out there to take the game seriously as it could be the gateway to a better life.” From Rushinga, playing netball as a hobby, travelling to Harare for a routine provincial championship and getting a breakthrough not just in the game but in life, Tinoza is forever thankful to this usually looked-down-upon game of netball. Gems Squad Claris Kwaramba (Platinum Queens), Priscilla Ndlovu (Platinum Queens), Nicole Muzanenhamo (Green Fuel), Tafadzwa Matura (ZDF), Chipo Shoko (Platinum Queens), Cynthia Gamuchirai (Mambas Queens), Ursula Ndlovu (Glow Petroleum), Paidamoyo Tinoza (Glow Petroleum), Progress Moyo (Platinum Queens), Sharleen Tanaka Makusha (Platinum Queens), Tafadzwa Mawango (Correctional Queens), Beulah Hlungwane (Glow Petroleum). Head coach: Ropafadzo Mutsauki Assistant coach: Wisdom Tatenda Shinya Team manager: Agnes Chiroodza Physiotherapist: Nyembesi Kwava Team doctor: Patience Maramba