The Herald MANCHESTER. — Manchester United boss Erik ten Hag has warned his struggling stars there is no room for egomaniacs. The Dutchman plans to instil a Sir Alex Ferguson-style discipline at the club after a disastrous season tarnished by dressing room splits and training ground bust-ups. And he has already made his crackdown clear by e-mail. A source said: “The new gaffer sent the first-team players an email, telling them that football is a team game and no individual is more important than any other. “His emphasis is all on the team — despite United possessing world class stars. “He wants the players to train at a higher intensity so that each session is like a game. “The players have been told that their fitness levels will be the best they have ever been and that if they stick with him and back him, they will be fine. “If not, they will be out the door. “They will be drilled and drilled until they get it right. And if they can’t he’ll replace them with some of the promising youngsters.” The source added that Donny van de Beek, who worked with Ten Hag at Ajax prior to his £40m move to Old Trafford in 2020, has warned his teammates Ten Hag is a football obsessive who will back the players to the hilt, but if he thinks any of them are being disloyal, they will be out the door. Ten Hag also plans to look into the private lives of players so he can get to know how they spend their time off the pitch and what hobbies they have. “He’s going to be a bit like Sir Alex Ferguson was,” the source said. “Fergie knew absolutely everything about his players and didn’t suffer any fools gladly. Neither will Ten Hag.” Manchester United are also recruiting a new first-team head chef as they continue their rebuild under ten Hag. The Red Devils left fans with a bitter taste in their mouths last season as they registered their worst ever English Premier League points tally, but chiefs are aiming to reverse their fortunes. United are advertising for a new head chef to cater for players and get them firing on all cylinders. They want their preferred candidate to: “Prepare, produce and deliver a high-quality consistent catering offer in various venues (predominately based at the training ground) as and when required.” The successful applicant will work closely with United’s nutritionist to create menus suitable for players to eat at work and take home. They will also be required to be available to travel to all matches including overseas, as they feed Cristiano Ronaldo and Co. The Red Devils are also after a new performance analyst. Describing the role, they write: “The Performance Analyst is required to contribute to an elite level analytical provision for our First Team Manager, Coaching Staff and Players. “This role will play a key part in maximising players and coaches’ abilities to perform at the highest level, with a view to winning football matches, across 4 major competitions.” They also add: “Our people are as committed to the success of the company as the players are to winning trophies.” United advertised for a new recruitment analyst last month, although a number of existing staff members have left this year. Ralf Rangnick’s consultancy role was canned following his exit as interim manager. Chief transfer negotiator Matt Judge has quit the club. While senior scouts Jim Lawlor and Marcel Bout have also exited. Experienced No. 2 Mike Phelan won’t work at the club as a first team coach next season. The 59-year-old is not required on the coaching side, following the arrivals of Mitchell van der Gaag and Steve McClaren as part of Ten Hag’s coaching team. Phelan remains under contract, however, and could stay in a different capacity. — The Sun.