The Herald Ellina Mhlanga-Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE senior netball team coach Ropafadzo Mutsauki says positive results at the Confederation of Southern Africa Netball Associations (COSANA) Tri-Nations Cup that begins this weekend in Malawi will boost their confidence ahead of the World Cup qualifiers. The COSANA tri-nations featuring Namibia, Zimbabwe and hosts Malawi is running until June 16. It will feature the senior teams and the Under-19s. The Gems had their first camp to prepare towards the World Cup qualifiers pencilled for August, in March. They regrouped early this week for the COSANA competition and Mutsauki is looking at the bigger picture, which is to come up with a team that can challenge for one of the remaining two tickets to next year’s World Cup. “Malawi and Namibia, we are also meeting them at the World Cup qualifiers. So it gives us confidence, if we can hold them during this tournament. “It boosts the confidence and self-belief to say we can compete with them during World Cup qualifiers because (Malawi) they are one of the best (teams) in Africa, even in the world,” said Mutsauki. The Gems technical team continues to make some adjustments to the team with the likes of Chipo Shoko, Cynthia Gamuchirai, Tafadzwa Mawango, Nicole Muzanenhamo and Beaula Hlungwani, who were not part of the previous squad that went to Namibia last year, joining the team for this assignment. Mutsauki said this gives them a chance to look at different players before they come up with the final team for the qualifiers. “We will have the final selection towards the qualifiers. At the moment we keep looking at different players until we come up with a winning team. “We keep selecting. We have some new players and we have some who have been part of the team, we want to give each player an opportunity to showcase what they can do. That’s why we keep bringing in other players. “We are looking at performance we are not focusing on history,” said Mutsauki. The Gems are scheduled to leave for Malawi today. The COSANA tournament also presents the participating countries with the opportunity to earn ranking points. “They (Malawi) are ranked seventh, so playing against better ranked teams gives us confidence and it’s an advantage because we also get ranking points. So we are happy for this competition. “Namibia is a good side, right now they are playing very well. Taking into consideration their performance last year during the Africa Championships, we expect very tough competition against Namibia,” said Mutsauki. The Gems’ first encounter is against Namibia on Sunday. Zimbabwe and Namibia will clash again in the Under-19s competition on the same day. The Gems coach said despite the limited time they had to prepare for the COSANA event, they are looking forward to the competition. “Every coach wants good results and we are expecting tricky games. The good part is we know what to expect, we are going to play good teams, so if we can get positive results it will boost our confidence as we expect,” Mutsauki said. Simbarashe Mlambo is in charge of the Under-19 team. The junior side is using the tournament as part of their build-up for the African Union Sports Council (AUSC) Region Five Under-20 Youth Games to be held in Malawi, in December. After the Malawi tournament, the Gems will not take a rest as they are set to start their preparations for the UK tournament scheduled for July 17-24. Gems Team Claris Kwaramba (captain), Priscilla Ndlovu, Chipo Shoko, Progress Moyo, Sharleen Tanaka Makusha (Platinum Queens), Cynthia Gamuchirai (Mambas Queens), Tafadzwa Matura (ZDF), Tafadzwa Mawango (Correctional Queens), Nicole Muzanenhamo (Greenfuel), Paidamoyo Tinoza, Beaula Hlungwani, Ursula Ndlovu (Glow Petroleum). Under-19 Team Esther Kasiku, Beyonce Ndaradzi, Queen Mubaira, Faith Chitunda, Thandazile Ndhlovu, Natasha Rwambiwa, Vimbai Chibi (captain), Yemurai Seven, Lethukuthula Nxumalo, Praise Garira, Thandiwe Mashore, Faith Mutero.