The Herald Reginald Chirenje-Youth Interactive Writer Women traditionally hold an inferior position in the African culture, which are often patriarchal. Women often work for no pay at home or in subsistence agriculture, alternatively they perform menial work. A 22 year old young woman Tinotenda Ndayima from Harare is a true reflection of a young woman pushing and fighting for gender equality in the society. “Women and girls represent half of the world’s population and therefore also half of its economic potential. Gender equality besides being a fundamental human right, is essential to achieve peaceful societies with full human potential and sustainable development. “Empowering women results in economic growth and productivity,” she said. Gender equality is when people of all genders have equal rights, responsibilities and opportunities. It impacts people of all ages and backgrounds. Tinotenda started advocating for gender equality in 2017 when she was still in high school. In her journey to ensure that gender equality is achieved in society, Ndayima has participated in peer education training offered by the adult clinic and has managed to motivate a number of young girls to focus on achieving their goals despite the challenges they may face along their way. “To ensure that gender equality has been achieved, I work hard towards the achievement of my dreams despite the challenges I come across everyday. My main goal is to break the glass ceiling and show the world that women are capable of doing what men do,” added Tinotenda. Personal problems such as financial incapacitation of paying her school fees have not stopped the young lady from assisting girls to achieve their goals. In trying to push and embrace gender equality, Tinotenda studied  factors hindering progress of achieving equality in other societies. These factors include child marriages, gender-based violence, harmful practices against women and women’s lack of economic empowerment in a society. Tinotenda went on to search for solutions to the above-mentioned factors. Society should give women platform to be in power and achieve economic success, end domestic violence, sexual assault against women and girls must be given access to education, she said The Government has a Revised National Gender Policy (2017) that places strong emphasis on gender equality, equity and envisions a gender just society in which men and women enjoy equality and benefit as equal partners in the development of the country. “Everyone deserves the opportunity to reach their full potential and gender equality helps to create a world without limits. “When steps are taken to advance gender equality, barriers are removed to create a world of infinite possibilities” Tinotenda said. “Such efforts being implemented in society will enable us to turn the old age promises of gender equality into action along with ensuring that we adhere to the agenda of sustainable development goals by 2030.”