The Herald Ray Bande in MUTARE Tenax C.S FC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  (0) 0 FC Platinum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (1) 2 DEFENDING Castle Lager Premiership champions FC Platinum continued with their impeccable run in the 2021/2022 Castle Lager Premiership when they dismissed Tenax at Sakubva Stadium yesterday. A goal by Blessing Moyo in the 40th minute and Lawrence Mhlanga’s strike nine minutes before time made the difference. Apart from the FC Platinum dominance, the major talking point of the match was Tenax’s Wirimai Mukudo’s refusal to be  substituted  two times during this exciting encounter. Thus Tenax coach Shadreck ‘Father’ Mugurasave had no kind words for Mukudo. “That is exactly unbecoming behavior and we will surely have to deal with that accordingly. If it means we are going to deregister him then we will have to do so. We surely would not accept such behaviour in our club,” said Mugurasave FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza was happy with the result, as his side has now won five games on the trot. “I am happy with the result and the guys have been doing very well. I am happy with their performance,” Mapeza said. The match started off balanced with both teams exchanging raids upfront. With all the creativity in the middle of the park, both teams just lacked the cutting edge in front of goal. However, it was the visitors who broke the deadlock when Moyo propelled the Zvishavane miners into the lead. Mhlanga doubled the lead after the breather following a Tenax defensive gafe. The result left FC Platinum piling the pressure on log leaders Chicken Inn who had won against Cranborne Bullets to maintain top spot. In a post match interview, Mapeza said: “It is good that we have managed to get three points. That is something that we have planned way before we came here. I am glad that we managed that. We will take it from there and ensure that we collect more maximum points with each passing game. We are on a rebuilding exercise and we still believe we are on the right course. Only time will tell.” “This is a project that we hope we all understand. Yes, we are rebuilding but we have a good side that is grinding results. That is something that makes us happy. We just hope and pray to continue in that direction.” The former Warriors coach refused to be drawn into the discussion about the race for the title. His opposite number, Mugurasave remains confident that his team will evade relegation “It is sad that we have lost yet another set of maximum points. We played against a good side and they did everything they could to win the match. We just have to go back to the drawing board and make plans so that we bounce back to our winning ways. We are sure that we will be able to evade relegation and that is our prime aim,” said Mugurasave.