The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter MIGHTY Warriors and former Harare City defender-cum midfielder Danai Bhobho’s career is in limbo after she was released by her Tanzanian club Simba Sports Club after breaching terms of her contract. Bhobho joined the East African side last year in June on a two-year contract. However, the player angered her former employers when she failed to return to the club after she had reported for national team duty in February this year. Bhobho was part of the Mighty Warriors squad that played Botswana in the African Cup of Nations qualifiers. The former Cyclone Queens was apparently told the club she wanted to attend to family matters and she missed a chance to win a league medal as Simba Stars Queens scooped the Tanzanian Women’s League last month and will be playing in the East Africa CAF Champions League qualifiers. The Tanzanian side have not taken her absence lightly and have released her on the condition that she will not join any club or play international football for the remaining one year of her contract. In a letter addressed to the player, Simba Sports Club Operation Manager, Belinda Paul, said Bhobho will not be cleared to play professional football for the duration of her contract. This means she cannot re-join Harare City Queens or any other club until June 2023. “Reference is made to your previous requests, oral and written, demanding your release from Simba Sports Club to enable you solving your family matters. “As you are aware, you left the club for national team duties and ever since you had never returned to perform your duties with the club pursuant to your contract ending next season. “In your last correspondence, you asked for the release due to family commitments and undertook not to register with any other team nor engage further in international football. This is because you are still contracted with Simba Sports Club. “By this letter, following your own request and on condition of not registering with any other team nor engaging yourself in international football for the whole contractual period, Simba Sports Club releases you without claiming any compensation from you. The club wishes you all the best in resolving/handling your family matters,” read the letter. When she joined the club last year, Bhobho said she was excited about the move. “I am excited about the move. I did not have any trials with the club but someone knew that the club wanted one player for my position and they linked me up. I concluded the deal in Zimbabwe before coming here (Tanzania). I am happy with the deal and I am looking forward to playing good football,” she said. Meanwhile, Black Rhinos Queens are now level on points with log leaders with Chapungu Queens after winning a top-of-the-table clash at 2 Brigade grounds on Saturday in the Zimbabwe Women’s Super League. Mighty Warriors striker Rutendo Makore scored the all-important goal to condemn Chapungu to their second defeat this season. Chapungu’s first defeat was against Herentals Queens last month. Chapungu had a dream start in the league, and are on top of the league. With both teams on 27 points, Black Rhinos are second with an inferior goal difference and have two games in hand. Herentals are third while Correctional Queens are fourth. A Chapungu official said they are still confident of winning the league title despite the setback. “It was a thrilling game pitting Zimbabwe’s finest, and as always we expected a tough match. It’s unfortunate that we lost, but above all, I am happy the girls performed quite well. If we only had been sharp at goal, we could have buried Black Rhinos. “The second round is coming though, and we will definitely bring it home,” he said. Yadah Queens hammered Chipembere Queens 7-1 at Yadah Grounds. Alia Utumbe and Mavis Mukana scored a brace, while Nomazulu Tshuma, Nyasha Jeche and Lisa Sagiya scored a goal each. Black Mambas Queens beat Borrow Jets 5-2 at their home ground Hillside Centre for Excellence in Bulawayo. The police side scored through Belinda Sibanda who grabbed a brace, Tafadzwa Tsunguro, Lisa Tapirangana and Alert Khumalo. Black Rhinos Queens 1, Chapungu Queens 0; Yadah Queens 7, Chipembere 1; MSU Queens 0, Black Mambas Queens 0; Borrow Jets 2, Black Mambas Queens 5. 