The Herald Business Reporter Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, president of the Arab Republic of Egypt and Mr Aliko Dangote, chairman and CEO, Dangote Group will be key speakers at the 29th annual general meetings of Afreximbank to be held in Cairo Egypt this month. The annual meetings of the bank with the theme “Realising the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) Potential in the post Covid-19 Era – Leveraging the Power of the Youth” would be held from June 15 to 18, 2022. According to Afreximbank’s media contact, Amadou Sall, in a statement, the meeting will bring together global experts and high-profile speakers including Prof Benedict Oramah, President/Chairman of the Board of Directors, Afreximbank. Others include Mr Tarek Amer, governor of central bank of Egypt, Dr Mohamed Maait, Minister of Finance of Egypt and Mrs Zainab Ahmed, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The AGM of shareholders will also include advisory group meetings complemented by seminars and plenaries. According to Mr Sall, the Afreximbank annual meetings are open to banking industry professionals, trade and trade finance practitioners and other parties involved in economic development from across Africa and beyond. The meetings, which have been ranked among the most important gatherings of economic decision-makers in Africa, are also to be attended by business and political leaders. Afreximbank, which is mandated to finance and promote intra-and extra-African trade has provided Zimbabwe with valuable support in its development over the years. Its relations with Zimbabwe were further cemented last year when the bank was granted land in Harare by Government to build a landmark centre for facilitating intra-African trade. Among other Afreximbank Africa Trade Centres (AATC) on the continent, the Harare AATC will house Afreximbank’s permanent regional office, a world-class hotel, a trade information centre, and a major conference centre and a tech incubation lab. The centre is also set to accommodate other regional, continental, and global financial and development institutions.