The Herald LONDON. — The 2022/23 English Premier League football season will kick off with Crystal Palace taking on Arsenal on Friday, August 5, before Manchester City begin their title defence at West Ham on Sunday, August 7. There will be no top-flight games after the weekend of November 12-13 until December 26 because of the World Cup in Qatar. Everton’s Saturday Night Football clash with Chelsea on August 6 and Manchester United’s Super Sunday match-up with Brighton — which will signal the start of the Erik ten Hag era at Old Trafford on the opening weekend. Championship winners Fulham begin their English Premier League season at home to Liverpool in the lunch-time kick-off on August 6, while newly-promoted Bournemouth host Aston Villa and Nottingham Forest — back in the top-flight for the first time since 1999 — go to Newcastle in the 3pm kick-offs. Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City will meet their 2021/22 title rivals Liverpool at Anfield on the weekend of October 15 before hosting Jurgen Klopp’s side at the Etihad Stadium on the weekend of April 1. If their race for the crown goes right down to the wire again, City’s penultimate game of the season at home to Chelsea could be key, before their final-day trip to Brentford on May 28. Liverpool finish their campaign at Southampton. Liverpool supporters will also be looking forward to an early-season match-up away to rivals Manchester United on August 20 before going to Goodison Park to face neighbours Everton in the first Merseyside derby on September 3. The Manchester derbies and north London derbies are scheduled for the same weekends of October 1 and January 14, with City and Arsenal playing host in the first meetings. For the first time ever, the English Premier League season will pause after the weekend of November 12/13 for the winter World Cup in Qatar. The season will restart on Boxing Day — eight days after the World Cup final on December 18 — with fixtures including London derbies Arsenal vs West Ham, Brentford vs Tottenham and Crystal Palace vs Fulham, while Nottingham Forest go to Old Trafford — the site of their infamous 8-1 defeat to Manchester United in their previous Premier League campaign. There are no games scheduled between Boxing Day until New Year’s Eve but, after playing on the final day of 2022, teams will be back in action on January 2, with Chelsea vs Manchester City an eye-catching contest at the start of 2023. The 2022-23 season has been adjusted to accommodate the 2022 World Cup, which takes place in the middle of the domestic calendar. It starts a week earlier than normal — 75 days after the final day of the 2021-22 campaign — and finishes a week later than usual on May 28. FIFA, world football’s governing body, has already stipulated that players must be released on November 14 for the World Cup. It means the mid-season break will last more than six weeks. Here’s the first round of fixtures for the 2021/22 English Premier League season: August 5 Crystal Palace vs Arsenal August 6 Fulham vs Liverpool Bournemouth vs Aston Villa Leeds vs Wolves Leicester vs Brentford Newcastle vs Nottingham Forest Tottenham vs Southampton Everton vs Chelsea August 7 Manchester United vs Brighton West Ham vs Manchester City The final weekend games Sunday May 28 Arsenal vs Wolves Aston Villa vs Brighton Brentford vs Manchester City Chelsea vs Newcastle Crystal Palace vs Nottingham Forest Everton vs Bournemouth Leeds vs Tottenham Leicester vs West Ham Manchester United vs Fulham Southampton vs Liverpool — Sky Sports