The Herald Senior Arts Reporter Upcoming gospel musician Karon Mutungwazi has released a debut single entitled “Jesus is Coming” which she said is a follow up on all the songs people have heard about Jesus. She hinted to the Christians that it should be a reminder every day that Jesus was coming. The single, which is doing well on social media, has visuals directed by Hastings Chiromo (Mr Hasty) of Rock Life Media, while the song was produced and mixed by producer Macdonald Macdee Chidavaenzi of Eternity Productions. In an interview with The Herald, Mutungwazi said the song reminds everyone that Jesus Christ was coming back as evidenced by the signs of the times. “Some will think it is a tired song where the issue of Jesus coming has been said before, but we should not tire as Christians to remind people that the end of time is near,” she said. “I am happy the song is doing very well on social media and it is more to inspire aspiring creatives on the visuals to stick to their dreams by sharing how I powered through the ups and downs on the road to becoming an established artiste.” Mutungwazi, who is an accountant by profession, is not new to the musical world as she was exposed to the art during her primary school days. “I used to sing in church,” she said. “I am an Adventist. At Northwood Adventist Primary, is where I was encouraged to worship and praise God. “It became my passion and little did I know I was ready to serve God at a tender age, being called to minister through music.” Mutungwazi started composing songs in 2005, though they did not see the light of the day. “Not many know that I composed the song ‘Jesus is Coming’ in 2005 only to be released now,” she said. “It has not been an easy journey you know, especially the tough times now bedevilling the arts sector. “You just have to strike the right chords and again I was surprised that the song is receiving overwhelming response. It is my dream come true. “Getting attention, especially from the media, sometimes is a mammoth task but I am happy I am now recognised and hope to do more songs.” Mutungwazi was in groups like Praise from Cranbone, Unshaken, Reunion and The Vine led by Everton Mlalazi. Outside of music, Mutungwazi loves discussing the word of God, comedy movies and following politics. She draws her inspiration from her parents who are both hard-working and God fearing intellects. “I owe it to my parents and I can say this single I have also dedicated it to them,” said Mutungwazi.