The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter FORMER Warriors and Dynamos midfielder Justice Majabvi has hailed the use of sport, particularly football, to help in amplifying the voice against child marriages. The retired footballer, who is also the vice-chairman of the Football Ambassadors of Zimbabwe, said this after attending the third edition of Mega Nhanga and Girls Soccer Tournament that was held at Magaya Secondary School in Murewa over the weekend. Majabvi and retired women’s footballer Anne Konje, and the social workers from their organisation also had a chance to have a session with the participants on drug and substance use as well as HIV/AIDS. The tournament aims to kick out child marriages. Nhanga sessions were also held to disseminate law information to the girls and empower them to know the law, own the law and apply the law. The football tournament is the brainchild of Africa Union Goodwill Ambassador, Nyaradzai Gumbonzvanda, who advocates for ending child marriages through Rozalia Memorial Trust where she is the executive director. Gumbonzvanda is a trained human rights lawyer with extensive experience in working with girls and young women. “Dr Gumbonzvanda is doing very well with her project through the Rozalia Memorial Trust. They held a tournament which was very successful and it was so good seeing girls playing football and also passing the message about ending early child marriages. There were so many girl child organisations from other provinces,” said Majabvi. “The tool for using sport, especially football, is because football has a big following and appeals to both the young and the old, that are the parents and their kids. The message moves faster and it reaches everywhere,” said Majabvi. “We also did our session for anti-drugs, HIV and AIDS. I was so touched by the young girls, who are so passionate and eager to learn. We want to continue supporting Gumbonzvanda, and we hope other stakeholders will support the great job that she is doing. We also had a chance to tour the Nhanga centre at Murewa centre. Majabvi, who also had a stint in Austria, said the girls were inspired to interact with Konje who is Harare City Queens juniors coach and also the Young Mighty Warriors coach. Konje has identified a number of players who have gone on to become national team players. She said the tournament was an eye-opener for her and hope to get involved in more football tournaments that spread a message for the girl child. “The tournament was well organised, and the theme of kicking out early child marriages resonated well with some of the girls who have gone through rape, child marriages and all kinds of abuses that are rampant these days. This kind of a tournament helps a lot, especially for kids to regain self-confidence as girls and I feel that they help a lot. I look forward to attending more tournaments of such a nature. It was an eye-opener for me and I learnt a lot of things.  We also got a chance as an organisation to have a session with the girls on drug abuse,” said Konje. Players drawn from schools and the community formed part of the 14 teams that were in action in the two-day tournament. Magaya won this year’s edition after beating MTC Sirens 4-2 on penalties after a goalless draw. Magaya had booked their place into the finals after beating another Murewa-based team Chemapango in the semi-finals. MTC Sirens Football Club are a community-based club from Nhedziwa district Chimanimani and most of the learners are at Nhedziwa High School. They beat Gono in the other last four to set up an exciting clash with the hosts. Magaya won a floating shield, gold medals, football kits and football balls, an educational package with books and school bags, as well as sanitary ware. Gumbonzvanda said she was particularly impressed by Simba team, a Shamva team from Umpfurudzi Resettlement area. “Simba team from Umpfurudzi Resettlement in Shamva were the least resourced. They played “nechikweshe” (plastic ball) until seven days before the tournament when Rozalia Memorial Trust gave them a proper ball and a kit. “They had village grounds and no proper training facility. I was so proud of the Simba team. “I loved the little girls from Mukombani, mostly 13 and 14-year-olds. They were the youngest team and gave us an exciting and promising game. “It was a competitive and exciting tournament. Some games were as emotional as all the players wanted to win games and prizes,” said Gumbonzvanda. Chief Mangwende and Chief Katema from Gokwe, Jiri area were the guest honours at the event that was also attended by officials from the Ministry of Women Affairs, Murewa District Development officials and the Ward 8 of Murewa councillor Masimba Gumira.