The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo-Senior Arts Reporter Gospel music has gone through different fortunes since independence, dominating the scene during some decades and being pushed to the periphery at other times. In the 1980s, there were very few gospel music singers, which included the versatile famous gospel couple Jonathan and Shuvai Wutawunashe who led the Family Singers, Mechanic Manyeruke, Jordan Chataika, and Brian Sibalo. It is the 1990s decade that saw gospel music taking the nation by storm and gave rise to dominating gospel acts like Charles and Olivia Charamba, Fungisai Zvakavapano-Mashavave, Mahendere Brothers, Elias Musakwa, Gospel Trumpet, Pastor G and EGEA Gospel Train. In fact, there is a long list of gospel musicians and groups that popularised gospel music in the 1990s, making the music dominate radio charts and even musical shows. Who can forget the Nguva Yakwana and Ngaavongwe gospel musical concerts that used to attract thousands? After this dominance, gospel music took a back seat in late 2000s, perhaps after failing to withstand pressure from rising genres like Urban Grooves and Zimdancehall. But now there is a fresh wave of musicians working hard to return gospel music to the top. And to find most of these at a single concert definitely revives the memories of the Nguva Yakwana and Ngaavongwe shows of the 1990s that used to attract big acts from regional countries. And this becomes a reality when the “Inspired Worship” concert and workshop being organised by renowned gospel musician, Tembalami takes place tomorrow at the Celebration Centre Church in Borrowdale, Harare. The event will start in the morning with a conference and workshop and then conclude with a gospel music concert. Top gospel musicians, the who-is-who of local gospel music, will come under one roof for this big event come tomorrow. These include hotshots such as Michael Mahendere, Everton Mlalazi, Janet Manyowa, Tatenda Gurupira, Takesure Zamar, Mark Madzinga, Bridge Ndanga, Pastor Bonnie Deuschle and many others. In an interview, Tembalami said they selected different speakers who relate to the topics to be discussed. He said the conference was vital in that they wanted to enlighten each other on how best they could promote the genre to meet international standards, from stage setting to music composition. “Some of the topics under discussion include song writing masterclass, sound engineering, band and choir dynamics, multimedia, music production, leading worship, music monetisation and content creation,” he said. “The conference is not only targeting gospel musicians, but is open to all, including churches so that they can learn one or two.” Tickets will cost US$20 and the amount covers everything, with fans having an opportunity to meet their favourite stars. “The event is taking place at the Celebration Centre Church in Harare and doors open at 9am,” said Tembalami. “I have thought of this idea and am still thinking of making it a permanent annual event. “It is being hosted by the gospel artistes, but we also call upon those in other genres to follow suit and come and support.” He said he chose to name the event “Inspired Worship” because it is about praise and worship, but the idea came through some inspiration.