The Herald Arts Reporter The country’s popular first commercial radio station, Star FM, will celebrate its 10-year anniversary tomorrow. Zimpapers Radio Broadcast Division general manager Comfort Mbofana said they were excited about the milestone. “The station went live at midday on 25 June 2012 with Munya Mlimo presenting the first show, and Pastor G’s “Indestructible” was the first song played on the station,” he said. “I was the presenter of the breakfast show when the station launched, and now I am the general manager of the Zimpapers Radio Broadcast Division. We have grown so much over these 10 years, it’s been an incredible journey.” Mbofana said they were delighted to have given listeners 10 years of quality broadcasting, “and while some of us were seasoned presenters when we started, we are proud to have developed a new generation of presenters who were beginners when we started. “KVG, Nikki, DJ Mox, Ollah 7 and Ndumiso are among those who started out in 2012 with little or no experience of radio, having gone through auditions where around 2 000 hopefuls took part. “Along with the likes of Iyati, Yvonne Tivatye, Tapiwa “Daywalker” Musoni, J Boss and Richard “RK” Kohola, they have become among the country’s most popular radio personalities, along with others who joined the station along the way — the likes of Tilder, V Candy, Templeman, DJ Mbale and Sokostina.” Mbofana said the presenter of Saturday’s Star Hitlist show, Tatenda Taderera, “Tadz the Total Package” was son of the station’s first general manager, Admire Taderera. Former presenters include Tich Mataz, Mai Judah, Phatisani Sibanda, Napstar and Leander Kandiero. Star FM Head of Programming Steve Vickers said: “The station is celebrating its 10th birthday with roadshows around the country and the biggest giveaway ever on Zimbabwean radio — a stand in Nyabira worth US$30 000. The station has partnered with Rawson Properties for the prize. “We’ve been wanting to do this for a long time, and it’s a great way of celebrating 10 years. “We are also featuring lots of throwbacks on air this month, with some presenters coming back for guest appearances, along with former newsreaders and former members of the sports team. Our #XtremeRadio roadshows are continuing to the end of the year as we connect with listeners around the country.” Since 2012 Star FM has hosted numerous musicians for interviews, including Oliver Mtukudzi, Hugh Masekela, Burna Boy, Alick Macheso, Jah Prayzah, Winky D and Nutty O. The station has been a major driving force in the growth of the Zimdancehall genre thanks to Templeman and DJ Mbale’s show, while the Gospel Greats, presented by Yvonne Tivatye, is an influential show in gospel music. The sports team has taken coverage of local sport to a new level, with the Daily Sports Zone a must-listen for sports fans. It has been to the Olympics, the FIFA World Cup, the CAF Africa Cup of Nations, the All-Africa Games, the Cosafa Cup and numerous other events. “We wanted to take coverage of our local sport to world-class standards, and we have managed to achieve that,” said Vickers. The News and Current Affairs team, headed by Linda Muriro, has also featured interviews with numerous politicians and has covered major events around Zimbabwe and beyond. The news team’s pay off line is “first with the true Zimbabwean story” as it strives to be ahead in disseminating authentic and factual information. The Star FM News team comprises of seasoned journalists such as Levi Mukarati, Senzo Mpofu, Sibonginkosi Hove, George Msumba, Precious Nyakudya and Siphatisiwe Mpofu. From covering politics, business, Parliament among others, the Star FM Newsroom has always kept its finger on the pulse.