The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter PROBABLY the 3-0 humbling of CAPS United took some lustre off this gripping Harare Derby at the National Sports Stadium yesterday. It was a match that had all the ingredients, those components which have been lacking in the previous encounters. The country’s biggest derby pitting arch-rivals Dynamos and CAPS United lived to its billing and supporters spiced the show as they came in big numbers. And when the first whistle sounded, the players from both teams had postures befitting the occasion. Issah Sadiki, the Dynamos winger plucked from Yadah not-so-long-ago, threatened to steal the show as he mesmerised from the flank. But, Makepekepe left wing-back, Valentine Musarurwa, was quick to notice the need for a man-on-man monitoring. Sadiki, though, was always going to prove his worth as he seized just a single moment and raced through goal to open the scoring for DeMbare just before the break. Ralph Kawondera and Frank Makarati would add the other two goals to condemn Makepekepe to their worst derby defeat since 2013. But without doubt, the afternoon belonged to 18-year-old Junior Makunike. In only his second start for the Glamour Boys, he imposed himself in the game much to the delight of the fans, including the opposition. He was rewarded with cash by the DeMbare faithful after the match. It was a game for the big boys and he proved he is a great prospect for the Harare giants. Partnering Trevor Mavhunga in a twin defensive midfield role, Makunike won almost every tackle he was involved in. He intercepted every pass attempted by the opposition in his territory as he bossed Devon Chafa, who is now very slow, and Enock Karembo who looked very much nervous throughout this match. Makunike is so complete he managed two dribbles and was involved in the process that resulted in Dynamos’ first two goals. “When I was told I was going to start, well, I told myself I didn’t have to put myself under much pressure. “I had to be myself, play as a I have always played but I tell you, this was a derby and I needed to be extra cautious,” said Makunike after the match. “It was a match that was designed for me maybe, to show the world what I am capable of doing. “I had to be composed and I knew once I completed my first pass that I would enjoy the rest of the game. “But honestly, the match was very tough as CAPS United also wanted the points. They gave us a real scare especially in the opening half before we found the opener. “I would like to thank the coach all my teammates. I should continue working hard everyday to keep on improving. “We are going for a two-week break and we have to perfect areas where we feel we should improve as a team and obviously for me as an individual. “I need to be involved more when the team is attacking and I need to also shoot at goal. Those are some of the areas I need to improve.” Born in Bulawayo 18-years ago, Makunike is the youngest player on DeMbare’s roster but he could become their biggest asset in the not-so-distant-future if he sustains the trajectory.