The Herald Loice Vavi Health Matters Definition Drug addiction, also called substance use disorder, is a dependence on a legal or illegal drug or medication. Keep in mind that alcohol and nicotine are legal substances, but are also considered drugs. When you’re addicted, you’re not able to control your drug use and you may continue using the drug despite the harm it causes. Drug addiction can cause an intense craving for the drug. You may want to quit, but most people find they can’t do it on their own. Drug addiction can cause serious, long-term consequences, including problems with physical and mental health, relationships, employment, and the law. Symptoms Most drug addictions start with experimental use of a drug in social situations. For some people, the drug use becomes more frequent. The risk of addiction and how fast you become dependent varies by drug. Some drugs have a higher risk and cause dependency more quickly than others. As time passes, you may need larger doses of the drug to get high. Soon you may need the drug just to feel good. As your drug use increases, you may find that it’s increasingly difficult to go without the drug. Attempts to stop drug use may cause intense cravings and make you feel physically ill (withdrawal symptoms). Drug addiction symptoms or behaviours include, among others: Feeling that you have to use the drug regularly — this can be daily or even several times a day Having intense urges for the drug Over time, needing more of the drug to get the same effect Making certain that you maintain a supply of the drug Spending money on the drug, even though you can’t afford it Not meeting obligations and work responsibilities, or cutting back on social or recreational activities because of drug use Doing things to get the drug that you normally wouldn’t do, such as stealing Driving or doing other risky activities when you’re under the influence of the drug Focusing more and more time and energy on getting and using the drug Failing in your attempts to stop using the drug Experiencing withdrawal symptoms when you attempt to stop taking the drug Recognising drug abuse in family members Sometimes it’s difficult to distinguish normal teenage moodiness or angst from signs of drug use. Possible indications that your teenager or other family member is using drugs include: Problems at school or work — frequently missing school or work, a sudden disinterest in school activities or work, or a drop in grades or work performance Physical health issues — lack of energy and motivation Neglected appearance — lack of interest in clothing, grooming or looks Changes in behaviour — exaggerated efforts to bar family members from entering his or her room or being secretive about where he or she goes with friends; or drastic changes in behaviour and in relationships with family and friends Spending money — sudden requests for money without a reasonable explanation; or your discovery that money is missing or has been stolen or that items have disappeared from your home, indicating maybe they’re being sold to support drug use Recognising signs of drug use or intoxication Signs and symptoms of drug use or intoxication may vary, depending on the type of drug. Below you’ll find several examples:- Marijuana, hashish and other cannabis-containing substances People use cannabis by smoking, eating, or inhaling a vaporised form of the drug. Cannabis often precedes or is used along with other substances, such as alcohol or other illegal drugs, and is often the first drug tried. Signs and symptoms of recent use can include: A sense of euphoria or feeling “high” A heightened sense of visual, auditory and taste perception Increased blood pressure and heart rate Red eyes, Dry mouth, Decreased coordination, Difficulty concentrating or remembering, Increased appetite, Slowed reaction time, Paranoid thinking Long-term (chronic) use is often associated with: Decreased mental sharpness Poor performance at school or at work Reduced number of friends and interests Synthetic cannabinoids and substituted cathinones A sense of euphoria or feeling “high” Elevated mood, Relaxation, An altered sense of visual, auditory and taste perception, Extreme anxiety or agitation, Paranoia, Hallucinations, Increased heart rate and blood pressure, Vomiting, Confusion Meth, cocaine and other stimulants Stimulants include amphetamines, meth (methamphetamine), cocaine and methylphenidate (Ritalin). They are often used and abused in search of a “high,” or to boost energy, to improve performance at work or school, or to lose weight or control appetite. Signs and symptoms of recent use can include: Feeling of exhilaration and excess confidence, Increased alertness, Increased energy and restlessness, Behaviour changes or aggression, Rapid or rambling speech, Dilated pupils, Delusions and hallucinations, Irritability or changes in mood, Changes in heart rate and blood pressure, Nausea or vomiting with weight loss, Impaired judgment Nasal congestion and damage to the mucous membrane of the nose (if snorting drugs) Insomnia, Paranoia, Depression as the drug wears off, Club drugs, Club drugs are commonly used at clubs, concerts LSD (Lencyclidine) use may cause: Hallucinations Greatly reduced perception of reality, for example, interpreting input from one of your senses as another, such as hearing colours, Impulsive behaviour, Rapid shifts in emotions, Permanent mental changes in perception, Rapid heart rate and high blood pressure, Tremors Flashbacks, a re-experience of the hallucinations — even years later PCP (Phencyclidine/ Angel dust) use may cause: A feeling of being separated from your body and surroundings Hallucinations Problems with coordination and movement Aggressive, possibly violent behaviour Involuntary eye movements Lack of pain sensation Increase in blood pressure and heart rate Problems with thinking and memory Problems speaking Impaired judgment Intolerance to loud noise Sometimes seizures or coma Inhalants Signs and symptoms of inhalant use vary, depending on the substance. Some commonly inhaled substances include glue, paint thinners, correction fluid, felt tip marker fluid, gasoline, cleaning fluids and household aerosol products. Due to the toxic nature of these substances, users may develop brain damage. Full article:  www.saturdaylifestyle.co.zw Signs and symptoms of use can include: Possessing an inhalant substance without a reasonable explanation Brief euphoria or intoxication, Decreased inhibition, Dizziness, Nausea or vomiting, Involuntary eye movements Appearing intoxicated with slurred speech, slow movements and poor coordination Irregular heartbeats, Tremors, Lingering odour of inhalant material, Rash around the nose and mouth Narcotic painkillers Opioids are narcotic, painkilling drugs produced from opium or made synthetically. This class of drugs includes, among others, heroin, morphine, codeine, methadone and oxycodone. Some people who’ve been using opioids over a long period of time may need physician-prescribed temporary or long-term drug substitution during treatment. Signs and symptoms of narcotic use and dependence can include: Euphoria or feeling “high”, Reduced sense of pain, Drowsiness or sedation, Slurred speech, Problems with attention and memory, Constricted pupils, Lack of awareness or inattention to surrounding, people and things, Problems with coordination Depression, Confusion, Sweaty, clammy skin, Constipation, Runny nose or nose sores (if snorting drugs), Needle marks (if injecting drugs) You think you may be having withdrawal symptoms after stopping drug use. Consult a therapist /counsellor /psychiatrist. Seek emergency help if you or someone you know has taken a drug and: May have overdosed, Shows changes in consciousness, Has trouble breathing, Has seizures or convulsions, Has signs of a possible heart attack, such as chest pain or pressure, Has any other troublesome physical or psychological reaction to use