The Herald Oscar Rusenga in TRIANGLE Triangle United  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (1) 2 Bulawayo Chiefs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (1) 2 A LAST-MINUTE equaliser by defender Elvis Moyo salvaged a point for Nilton Terroso’s Bulawayo Chiefs against Triangle in this Castle Lager Premiership football match at Gibbo yesterday. The first half was a balanced affair with the two teams trading punches as they showed intent. It was the visitors who took the initiative after two minutes with Ghanaian Wilson Mensah taking advantage of Triangle defender Kelvin Gwao’s slip to score the first goal of the match. The home side did not take long to restore parity with veterans Donald Ngoma and Russell Madamombe combining to level matters. It was the former who made the cross that set up the latter for Bhero to set up the former Dynamos star Madamombe to convert inside the opening 10 minutes. The two teams had chances to score but their strikers took turns to fluff one opportunity after another. Madamombe failed to finish off a good chance in the 36th minute after being set by Ngoma with a clever dummy. Chief’s Perfect Chikwende hit the frame of the goal with a thunderbolt of a shot in the 40th minute. This was after a perfect set up by Chirinda who came on as a first half substitute following a head injury on Farawu Matare. Chiefs dominated possession in the second half with Hughe Chikosa and Arthur Musiyiwa dictating the pace in the middle of the park. Triangle, who looked jittery in defence, however, managed to contain the raids by Chiefs before taking the lead  with 10 minutes to play. Just like the first goal, Chitsumba’s delivery was inch-perfect and a slight flick by Ngoma connected to Bhero who crossed the ball for Madamombe to head home what looked like the winning goal for the home side. The visitors had the last laugh as they snatched a point right at the death in what was a fairly balanced and entertaining encounter. Chiefs coach was happy with the result while the home camp was left dejected. “It was a very well played for the most part with two different style of play. Triangle were very direct and physical but overally I am happy with the players, we kept playing and we got rewarded in the end,” said Terroso. “I am disappointed with the result and I am sure everyone in our dressing is feeling the same. It’s rather two points lost than one point gained and this was all due to lack of concentration. “We conceded in the first and last minute of the game and it’s not good especially after coming back from one goal down and leading 2-1 on to concede when we thought we had bagged the maximum points. We will obviously go back to the drawing board and try to correct our mistakes as we prepare for another tough encounter against Dynamos this coming weekend,” said Triangle assistant coach Patrick Mandizha.