The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo-Senior Arts Reporter Another week has just ended and already, revellers are planning on where to go and unwind. Besides the chilly weather, people should know that the Covid-19 virus is still with us and we should not be relaxed at events. Last night, sungura musician Alick Macheso’s executive dinner was awesome, with local celebrities, musicians and of course business executives coming to support him. Besides, the event was meant for those who can’t make it to tonight’s album launch at the Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex. Beyond Macheso being topical in the showbiz industry this week, a lot of events are also taking place and our Arts and Entertainment crew compiled some of them. Macheso Big Night The day is finally here. Tonight all roads lead to the Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex for Macheso’s album launch title “Tinosvitswa Nashe” which will also see some local musicians supporting him by performing. The list includes Freeman, Selmor Mtukudzi, Baba Harare, Andy Muridzo, Leonard Zhakata and Nicholas Zakaria. Macheso’s new six track album carries songs “Makazvinzwepi”, “Kutadzirana”, Nzendo Dzirefu”, “Ndimi Vanhu Vacho”, “Impfa Nimulandi” and “Munhu Mumwe”. Again it is also a double celebration as the musician will be marking his 54th birthday. Miss UZ crowning ceremony tomorrow All is set for the Miss University of Zimbabwe 2022 pageant tomorrow to be held at the UZ campus’ Great Hall. About 18 girls were selected to be in the finale which is being hosted by the UZ Rotaract team. Contesting for the title of Miss UZ are Pracious Chakwiza, Isheanesu Mahachi, Nomaqhwae Mabhena, Allyfinae Mwanyali, Michel Tshuma, Nobukhosi Sibanda, Kudzai Mitchel Matizha, Wakatendeka Mhlanga, Praise Chikotosa, Nyasha Amanda Chihambiro, Farai Katiyo, Trizer Khan, Vanessa Chinhengo, Tanatswa Vera, Getrude Shasha, Alice Ruvarashe Katenjele, Grace Mashavike and Lerato Laura Nare. Running under the theme ‘impact to change’, which according to Ayanda Candice Sibanda, the reigning Miss UZ and creative director of the event, is what they are looking for in the next Miss University of Zimbabwe. “Basically, we are looking for someone who is willing to impact change in their society in order to inspire others to do the same,” she said. The event will have three categories –introduction, evening wear and casual wear. Freeman in massive weekend shows Should we say Freeman is the man of the moment when it comes to bookings at events? Tonight he performs at Baba Sharo’s  album launch in Chitungwiza before he rushes to put up another show at Midlands Hotel in Gweru. He is expected to share the stage with DJ Kid A, DJ Fellaz and Leefire, among others. Then tomorrow, the “Gomba” hit maker will be in Gwanda at The Phoenix Shisanyama together with his band. He concludes the weekend at a Family Show Friends edition in Chinhoyi at Jongwe Corner. Holy Ten to launch album tomorrow Hip hop musician Holy Ten is set to drop his album “Energy” tomorrow. The musician defended the move of releasing his album soon after Macheso saying they had different audiences. Many wait to hear what is in store for them when he unveils the album.