The Herald Miriam Nyasha Kwari Herbalist Hello there friends! Welcome! I welcome to another edition of “Your health is your wealth.”  Today, we will be getting familiar with Roselle (Hibiscus) plant. Rosella — Hibiscus Plant Roselle is a well-known medicinal plant with over 300 species found in tropical and subtropical locations around the world. Its nutritional and therapeutic qualities are widely known. Roselle seeds, leaves, fruits, and roots are used in a variety of dishes as well as in herbal medicine as a non-pharmacological therapy option. Roselle extracts are used to treat a variety of medical conditions, including various cardiovascular ailments, parasitic worms, and cancer. The plant is also an antioxidant and is used to manage obesity. Roselle is a plant related to okra that is highly tasty. The leaves are eaten as a vegetable in tropical and subtropical parts of the world, and are a spicy variation of spinach. It is used in cooking, and the blossoms are used for flavouring, colouring, and preparing teas. Rosella tea is beneficial for sore throats, tonsils, flues, coughs, colds, bronchitis, tuberculosis, and chronic chest disorders. It is renowned for its mild laxative effect, capacity to stimulate urine, cooling effect in hot weather, and treatment of foot cracks, bilious, ulcers, and wounds. Vitamin C found in Roselle helps strengthen the immune system and protects us from colds and coughs. It promotes iron absorption and strengthens the body’s resistance to illness. It also works well against viruses. Anti-ageing properties: The Roselle plant is well-known in the cosmetics and beauty industry for its anti-ageing properties. It has been used in the creation of face/body rubs, facial steams, clay masks, and other cosmetics. Weight loss Roselle herbal tea may also aid weight loss. You can gain weight by eating foods high in carbs, which contain sugar and starch. However, studies have indicated that hibiscus extract lowers carbohydrate and glucose absorption, which may help with weight loss. Cancer resistant properties Roselle herbal tea contains protocatechuic acid, which is anti-tumour and antioxidant. Hibiscus reduces malignant cell growth by causing apoptosis, often known as programmed cell death, according to a study. So there you have it, friends. Please remember to use herbs in your everyday life to heal ailments and promote your health. Until we meet again, take care.