The Herald Petros Kausiyo in CAPE TOWN, South Africa GOSHAWKS coach Brendan Dawson has implored his charges to up their game and fight for a Currie Cup First Division rugby victory that will boost their confidence as they head to France for next month’s Africa Cup. The Zimbabwean outfit will face Valke in their final match of the tournament at Wynberg High School in Cape Town this afternoon. (Kick-off 3pm) Dawson’s men had done well to post three straight victories between April and May but they have lost their rhythm in as many assignments in recent weeks in which they have failed to even post points on the scoreboard in two of the games. They have won three and lost five of the eight matches they have played, to sit on ninth position with 12 points. Goshawks are a rung above basement side Border Bulldogs who remain winless from their eight games. And their opponents in today’s game – Valke — are in sixth place, having won four and lost as many encounters to register 23 points. In their last three assignments, Dawson’s men were hammered 48-0 by SWD Eagles in George, after which they were mauled 35-0 by Leopards at Athlone. Last Sunday they also found the going tough when losing 35-5 at the hands of Eastern Province Elephants at Nelson Mandela Bay in Port Elizabeth. Now as they look to finish their three-month sojourn in Cape Town, Dawson wants his charges to end their Currie Cup campaign on a high. Dawson has been using the Currie Cup as both a platform to prepare for the Africa Cup and also select his squad for the continental challenge, scheduled for France next month. He was also due to name his 31-man side for the Africa Cup at a gala dinner here last night. This year’s Africa Cup will also serve as the final qualifier for the 2023 World Cup with the winners securing an automatic ticket to the global rugby showpiece in France. Dawson believes that a positive result against Valke will help give his players just the kind of confidence they need as they shift base from South Africa to France via Netherlands. Today’s game is also the last in which the national team will play under the banner Goshawks, as they will revert to their Sables identity ahead of their June 25 Test against Netherlands away. The former Zimbabwe captain, however insisted that the Goshawks participation in the Currie Cup has “never really been about results’’. “The principle was that we were going to use it as a building process and we weren’t going to be results-driven but getting the right squad to go to France,’’ Dawson said. He however, acknowledged the impact of having a winning mentality. “Yah obviously winning three games has boosted the confidence, boosted the morale and making the guys understand the system and see whether what we are trying do is working. “As I said it was never a results-driven process this year but hopefully next year if we are in the Currie Cup it will be a results-driven process. “And it has gone well and we have had two-bad injuries, two of our main locks are no longer with us being Goofy (Kudakwashe Nyakufarengwa) and Andrew Evans. “They have pulled out due to injuries and that is a big blow to us and to our system and a blow to the team. “We also had a couple of guys that we had suggested they come into camp and being foreign-based players, and sort of pencilled them in to go to France being top quality players, but they have opted out and that has let us down drastically and hit us hard but the guys that have come in have stepped up to the plate. “Some guys have grown immensely in it and some guys have been found wanting. So the guys that have developed and grown have grown in leaps and bounds,’’ he said. Dawson also underscored the significance of a rare long training camp by his squad and the need to acquit themselves and make an impression in their final game. “Overall that has been phenomenal for us and a growth point for Zimbabwe rugby. “Valke is a game that we want to make sure we end off on a high note and make sure that the Netherlands with positivity even if the results don’t go our way at least we want to make sure we play proper rugby, play to the patterns and play to the structures we want to. “If we can play good quality rugby the way we want to play against Cote d’ Ivoire and Namibia, play the rugby that we have been practising then we will be happy.’’ The 54-year-old coach has also made six changes to the side, which lost to Eastern Province last Sunday. Hooker Matthew Mandioma, tighthead prop Gabriel Sipapate, right flanker Johan du Preez, flyhalf Taku Musingwini, wing Tavonga Ablant (hamstring injury) and fullback Kennedy Conor have been left out of the starting XV for this afternoon. They have been replaced by the crew of Liam Larkam, Bornwell Gwinji, Aiden Burnett, Marcus Nel who is a surprise choice for flyhalf, Brendon Marume and Shingirai Katsvere. Goshawks Team Tyran Fagan, Liam Larkan, Bornwell Gwinji, Sean Beevor, Godfrey Muzanargwo, Kelvin Kanenungo, Aiden Burnett, Nyasha Tarusenga, Hilton Mudariki, Marcus Nel, Brendon Marume, Taku Chieza, Matthew McNab, Shayne Makombe, Shingirai Katsvere