The Herald LONDON. — World Cup-winning captain Eoin Morgan has confirmed his retirement from international cricket, saying “the future for England’s white-ball teams is brighter than ever”. Morgan has revolutionised England’s limited-overs fortunes in his seven-and-a-half-year reign, taking them from also-rans at the 2015 World Cup to champions for the first time four years later. He wanted to lead England at the T20 World Cup in Australia later this year but the 35-year-old has struggled with form and fitness over the last 18 months, prompting a change of heart. Morgan led a one-day series in the Netherlands this month but his dual issues were exposed as he was dismissed twice for nought in high-scoring matches before missing the concluding game with a groin niggle. “After careful deliberation and consideration, I am here to announce my retirement from international cricket with immediate effect,” said Morgan. “To call time on what has been without doubt the most enjoyable and rewarding chapter of my career hasn’t been an easy decision, but I believe now is the right time to do so, both for me, personally, and for both England white-ball sides I have led to this point. “From my start in the international arena with Ireland to winning the World Cup in 2019, I have never lost sight of how integral family support is to any international sportsperson. To my Mum and Dad, my wife, Tara, and our family around the world, thank you for your unconditional support throughout the good and more challenging times in my career. Without you all, this incredible journey would not have been possible. “I must also thank my team-mates, coaches, supporters, and those behind the scenes who have made my career and any successes possible. I am hugely proud of what I have achieved as a player and captain, but the things I will cherish and remember the most are the memories I made with some of the greatest people I know along the way. “I have been lucky enough to play in two World Cup-winning teams, but I believe the future for England’s white-ball teams is brighter than ever. We have more experience, more strength and more depth than ever before. I look forward to watching on with a huge level of excitement. “To what lies ahead for me, I will continue to enjoy playing at a domestic level while I can. I’m really looking forward to playing and captaining London Spirit in the second edition of The Hundred this year.” Jos Buttler, the current vice-captain, is the favourite to replace Morgan as England’s white-ball captain. England have a high-profile series against India, comprising three T20s and three ODIs, starting on July 7, before the same against South Africa which begins on July 19. Having replaced Sir Alastair Cook as white-ball captain prior to the 2015 World Cup in Australia, Morgan overcame an embarrassing group exit in that tournament and led a revolution in English limited-overs cricket. — Sky Sports