The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter Springbok Women . . . . . . . . . . (53) 108 Lady Sables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (0) 0 THE Zimbabwe women’s 15s rugby side — the Lady Sables — were humiliated by South Africa’s Springbok Women in their opening game of the Rugby Africa Women’s Cup at City Park in Cape Town, South Africa, yesterday. The Springbok Women scored 17 tries as they massacred their opponents who were a pale shadow of a team that has a strong Sevens sides. The Lady Sables conceded nine tries in the first half as they went to the break trailing 53-0 and the second half was no better as the host added eight more tries to take their points to 108. In fact, the Springbok Women put on an attacking masterclass as they totally outplayed the Lady Sables to start their Rugby Africa Women’s Cup campaign on a winning note yesterday. The South Africans scored 17 tries in a one-sided affair played in cold conditions at City Park in Athlone, with intermittent rain. Nomawethu Mabenge (wing) and Aphiwe Ngwevu (centre), who was named Player of the Match, scored hat-tricks in the Springbok Women’s first Test of the season. The second game in the competition is scheduled for Sunday, when Zimbabwe take on Namibia (1:30pm), and the final encounter is on June 23, between the Springbok Women and Namibia (3pm). All the matches will be played at City Park In yesterday’s match, South Africa opened the scoring as early as the second minute with Mabenge converting after a try for a 7-0 lead. After the first try the hosts never looked back and did not give the visitors any chance to reach their third quarter as they continued to add more tries and conversions. The Rugby Africa Women Cup will see Namibia, Zimbabwe and South Africa compete in Group A of the competition which began yesterday and will end on June 25. Springbok women dominated the match with Zimbabwe failing to pose any meaningful threat until the 48th minute when they were adjudged to have mishandled the ball while going for a try the only time they reached the South Africans third quarter. Border Ladies centre, Aphiwe Ngwevu, was a thorn in the Zimbabwean defence flesh so was Cell C Sharks lock, Nompumelelo Mathe. The duo had missed action in the past events, but find themselves back in the green and gold after they last played against Kenya in August 2021 and showed that they still have it. Lady Sables team captain Mellisa Ndlovu said they are now looking forward to the next game against Namibia where they need to improve. “It was a very difficult game and South Africa are a very difficult side to play against and we are now going back to the drawingboard and prepare for the next match against Namibia,” said Ndlovu. South Africa captain Nolusindiso Booi said they are happy with the win and look forward to the next match. “It was a sweet victory and we hope to continue with the momentum in our next game. It will be difficult against Namibia but we will do our best. “The win gives us confidence and I am sure we will do well again,” said Booi