The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter DYNAMOS players Emmanuel Paga and Shadreck Nyahwa have taken advantage of the Castle Lager Premiership football mid-season break to travel for trials after they were invited for assessments at Tanzanian side Azam FC and Pyramids of Egypt. The two players yesterday left for Dar-es-salaam in East Africa, where they will spend one week at Azam FC, before heading to Egypt for another assessment. Apparently, Azam and Pyramids have requested to assess the players following their commendable performances during the first half of the season. Azam FC executive officer, Abdulkarim Nurdin, wrote to DeMbare this week requesting the players. “The management of Azam Football Club is hereby inviting Mr Shadreck Panashe Nyahwa and Emmanuel Zengayire Paga for the football assessment to Azam Football Club for a period of one week from June 10 2022 to 23 June 2022. “Azam Football Club will take care of the Airport transfer, accommodation, medical attention as well as training facility during their stay,” reads the invitation letter signed by the club’s chief executive officer, Abdulkarim Nurdin. Ghanaian Paga has only been with the Glamour Boys for four months and has been in good form after bagging five goals to become DeMbare’s top goal scorer midway through the campaign. The forward has emerged as one of the Glamour Boys’ unsung heroes in their campaign. While many have been focusing their attention on the team’s defensive capabilities, which have seen the Glamour Boys conceding only six goals in 16 outings, not much has been said about the man who has been their main source of goals. The Ghanaian import has apparently struck a rich understanding with teenage winger Bill Antonio, who has been the main provider of DeMbare’s assists. Paga signed a two-year contract at the beginning of the year and still has more than 18 months remaining. Midfielder Nyahwa, on the other hand, is nearing the end of his contract. Dynamos secretary general Webster Marechera was not keen to discuss the developments when approached for comment yesterday. But player agent George Deda, who is representing both players, confirmed the pair travelled with the blessings from Dynamos. The Glamour Boys have not exported players in a while and they could be smiling all the way to the bank if the duo is successful. “They left this (yesterday) morning with the blessings of Dynamos. These guys have caught the attention of some clubs outside the country and in consultation with Dynamos we arranged for them to travel to Tanzania, where we have cultivated good relations, first. “Afterwards they are set to go to Pyramids of Egypt. There have also been interests from some other clubs such as Young Africans of Tanzania. I can tell you the guys are in high spirits and they are excited by this opportunity. “Whatever happens there will be handled by Dynamos,” said Deda. However, it was not clear whether Dynamos were prepared to tamper with their squad after making a promising start to their campaign. Dynamos are currently sitting in second place in the log standings with 34 points, one behind Chicken Inn after the first 17 games of the season. But a move either to Tanzania or Egypt would leave the club with a healthier bank balance.