The Herald ZIMBABWE’S first Test captain Dave Houghton says he expects to make “an immediate impact” after being appointed new head coach for the men’s cricket teams in all formats. He will be in charge for the start of next month’s T20 World Cup qualifiers and succeeds Lalchand Rajput, who will assume a newly-created role as technical director. Houghton (64) was a player-coach of the side in the late 1990s and says it was an easy decision to return to the set-up. “I have always been one to help Zimbabwe in any way I can,” he told BBC Sport Africa. “It’s the country of my birth, it’s where I played all my cricket, and I would like nothing better than to see them get back to where they were some years ago.” Houghton has a wealth of experience at international level and an extensive coaching pedigree, including a spell as Derbyshire’s head of cricket. He firmly believes he can steadily improve the national side’s fortunes. “I was back home for the last cricket season and was involved with one of the franchise sides [Mountaineers],” added Houghton. “The cricket that was played was outstanding. The results of the national side haven’t reflected the fact that the cricket is actually better now than what it was in my time, certainly provincial and local cricket.” Houghton was in charge of Zimbabwe during their memorable run to the Super Six stage of the 1999 World Cup in England, following impressive group-stage wins over India and South Africa. So what is the recipe for success this time around? “We need to get (the players) positive again — give them their confidence back,” he said. “They have taken a few beatings in recent times. We need to get them playing good, positive cricket again and to start getting some results.” Houghton captained Zimbabwe in their inaugural Test against India in 1992 and scored a century on debut. It was the first of four hundreds that he made in 22 Test matches, with his 266 against Sri Lanka in Bulawayo in 1994 still Zimbabwe’s highest individual Test score. Zimbabwe were recently beaten 3-0 at home by Afghanistan in both their One-Day International and Twenty20 series, but host the eight-team T20 World Cup qualifier on home soil. The two finalists from the event will qualify for the T20 World Cup in Australia, to be held in October and November. Preparations may have been troubled, but Houghton remains in a positive mood as Zimbabwe look to reach the tournament for the first time since 2016.