The Herald THE Zimbabwe Under-20 rugby team’s technical, department has named a talent-laden expanded squad of 61 players in preparation for the World Rugby-sanctioned Under-20 International Series to be played in Canada in August. The Junior Sables, who are the reigning African champions after clinching the Rugby Africa Under-20 Barthes Trophy in Kenya in April, will represent the continent in the four-nation tournament which will also feature the hosts Canada, Chile and Uruguay. Following the cancellation of the World Rugby Under-20 Championship and Trophy 2021 due to the ongoing impact of the global Covid-19 pandemic, World Rugby has worked with regions and unions to identify safe competition opportunities. The International Series which will be played from August 9 to 24 at the University of Guelph campus in Ontario is expected to give the Junior Sables some much-needed international exposure ahead of next year’s World Rugby Under-20 Trophy. Junior Sables head coach Shaun de Souza said after recently receiving an invitation to feature in the high-profile tournament, they have named a preliminary squad of 61 players while they are still awaiting confirmation on the availability of some players based in South Africa. “We have called up a squad of players for this campaign comprising 31 forwards and 30 backs who I think can step up to the occasion. “We still have some South Africa-based players who are yet to confirm their availability which just makes selection even harder which is a good headache to have ahead of this series,” De Souza said. The former Zimbabwe international made appeal to corporates and sponsors to come on board and support the team which many believe is destined for greatness after their feat in Kenya. “This series gives teams playing in the World Rugby Under-20 Trophy an opportunity to get some game time before the resumption of this event in 2023. “We are hoping to prepare adequately before our participation but it’s not possible without adequate resources which is why we want to appeal to corporates and sponsors to come on board and support the team. “These youngsters are the future of Zimbabwe rugby and with the necessary support there is no limit to what they can achieve, the Rugby Africa U20 Barthes Trophy was just the beginning,” said De Souza. The squad is dominated by players who were part of the group which sensationally won the Africa Rugby Under-20 Barthes Trophy with a victory over Namibia in the final. Junior Sables Under-20 Squad Props: Tomuvonga Msasanure, Happias Zhou, Nqobile Manyara, Tadiwa Chinwada, Farai Madzima, Veshal Jasi, Martin Hakunavanhu Hookers: Marlon Guwuriro, Bryan Chiang, Takunda Mudzingwa, Tawanda Banda, Takudzwa Zvomuya Locks: Simbarashe Siraha, Tamuka Kambani, Solomon Zawe, Tadiwanashe Marumisa, Craig Snyder Loose forwards: Andrew Rinomhota, Tendai Chimyama, Tanaka Ndoro, Muzuva Gutu, Anthony Kalubi, Andy Maringo, Rua Karimazondo, David Mangwende , Gary Kagande , Phillip Ehlers , Gealan Jaricha Utility Forwards: Tanaka GondoMukandapi, Denzel Maramba , Daniel Johnson Scrum Halves: Panashe Zuze, Tanaka Ndabambi, Shadrick Mandaza, Welton Charumbira, Matthew Hickey Fly Halves: Benjamin Pattenden, Takudzwa Musingwini, Stephen Terera Centres: Rukudzo Ndoro, Carl Kawodza, Alex Nyamunda, Dion Khumalo, Tanaka Chinyanga, Brooklyn Chikaka, Crispen Mashingaidze, Jerome Sagomba, Giles Munyamana Outside backs: Liberty Sibanda, Tariro Tapfuma, Brendan Mason, Tawanda Matipano, Tavonga Ablant, Munotida Marimirofa, Josiah Borerwe, Emmanuel Farawu, Lesley Mubeto, David Yosa, Hunter Chiutsi Utility Backs: Simbarashe Kanyangarara, Brendan Marume. — ZimSportLive.