The Herald Sports Reporter ZIFA Referees Committee chairman Brighton Mudzamiri says the decision by FIFA to make the use of five substitutes permanent in football matches has many benefits. The world football governing body ratified the changes and clarifications to the Laws of the Game 2022/23 at their 136th Annual General Meeting held in Doha, Qatar on Monday. The changes will come into effect next month. The five substitutions rule was initially introduced to help teams during the Covid-19 pandemic because some players would test positive to the disease prior to games. The domestic league has also embraced the modification from traditional use of three substitutes. However, the five substitutes have to be done in three windows during a game. Half time substitutions are not counted on the three windows. “This has helped teams during the pandemic and it has ensured that the game remains competitive,” said Mudzamiri. “Our local teams have been applying this rule ever since it was introduced and it has been of great benefit. It also helps in cases of injuries because the coach would know they have two extra players.” FIFA on Monday said that five substitutes would be permanently introduced for all top games and that a 3D offside detector is closer to being introduced for this year’s World Cup. The AGM, chaired by FIFA president Gianni Infantino also discussed ongoing trials of concussion substitutes, possible alternatives to offside, and the latest technological developments to support match officials. Infantino said the substitute change, which was started in 2020 because of the coronavirus pandemic, followed “strong support from the entire football community”. Temporary concussion substitutes were reconsidered, but the members agreed that the trials should continue to focus on permanently removing any player with actual or possible concussion to ensure this player does not continue taking part in the match in question. It was agreed that further education was needed to ensure the trial protocols are applied correctly. Mudzamiri said they were hoping to implement all the rules although Zimbabwe are currently under FIFA suspension. He said they are looking to hold local workshops to keep the referees abreast of the global trends. “We have WhatsApp groups where all the match officials get help from instructors at least on a weekly basis. These instructors have kept them informed about the developments in the game. “We also have fitness instructors who attend to their physical well-being through the use of technology. The referees are equipped with polar watches which record their activities including the heart rate, speed, distance and so on. “There is no room for cheating because the polar watches record everything with accuracy. When the referees download their activities, the information reflects exactly what they have done. Finances permitting, we would like to take our referees to another level,” said Mudzamiri.