The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter WITH just a day to go before the Confederation of Southern Africa Netball Associations (COSANA) Tri-Nations gets underway, Gems captain Claris Kwaramba is hoping for an upset against hosts Malawi when the two teams clash. Zimbabwe join Namibia and Malawi for this tournament. The five-day competition begins tomorrow with Zimbabwe’s seniors and juniors facing Namibia. Zimbabwe’s teams were initially scheduled to leave for Malawi yesterday but they are now expected to leave today. Kwaramba, who takes over the captaincy in the absence of Felisitus Kwangwa, said they made good progress in the few days they met as a team. “It’s just that we needed to come up with combinations in just two days that we had and we are from different teams. We do not know each other very well but we have made (some) progress. “Everything is going well, we are helping each other, the regular players that have been with the team for some time and new players. We are encouraging each other and pushing each other. “I think we are going to get some good results; even Malawi I think we have a chance against them. We have new players, young blood in the team, so I believe we will win. “We will just play our normal game, avoid complacency,” said Kwaramba. Malawi, ranked seventh in the world, is the best ranked team at this tournament and they are the favourites. Zimbabwe are ranked 13th and Namibia are sitting at number 22 in the world rankings. Beaula Hlungwani, who is returning to the senior team after sometime, is optimistic of a fruitful outing. “I last played for the senior team in 2016, that was in South Africa when we went for the Diamond Challenge in Durban and I also went to Botswana for Africa Championships. “Coming back to the senior national team, I wish to give my best to show that I can and I once played for the national team. “I am hoping to do my best and hopefully deliver. “We wish to bring back good results from Malawi,” said Hlungwani. Zimbabwe are also fielding the Under-19 side that is preparing for the forthcoming African Union Sports Council (AUSC) Region Five Under-20 Youth Games. The Games are scheduled for December in Malawi. Under-19 coach Simbarashe Mlambo said the few days they were in camp with the seniors have been helpful in getting the team ready for the COSANA event. “They are young, easily moulded. But playing with seniors as well means that we get a bit of tough marking, tough game. “But I like that because I think that when they come to their own age mates, they will be able to do very well… And then, I just need to prepare them mentally and see how well they do but so far, so good,” said Mlambo. With less competition on the local scene, the Under-19 side will be hoping for some exposure at this competition. It also gives them an idea of what to expect when they return to Malawi in December for the Regional Games. “Being able to go there now and play four competitive games and then we are going back again in December, it is very important because I need to see the girls (playing) under pressure. “I need to see how well they handle their opponents and Malawi obviously, the hosts, will do everything in their power to make sure that they play very well. “I just think that all is going to go well and I feel that we will give them a good run for their money. And obviously it will give us a chance to acclimatise and see what kind of environment we are playing in and come December, we will be spot on,” Mlambo said. Gems Team Claris Kwaramba (captain), Priscilla Ndlovu, Chipo Shoko, Progress Moyo, Sharleen Tanaka Makusha (Platinum Queens), Cynthia Gamuchirai (Mambas Queens), Tafadzwa Matura (ZDF), Tafadzwa Mawango (Correctional Queens), Nicole Muzanenhamo (Greenfuel), Paidamoyo Tinoza, Beaula Hlungwani, Ursula Ndlovu (Glow Petroleum). Under-19 Team Esther Kasiku, Beyonce Ndaradzi, Queen Mubaira, Faith Chitunda, Thandazile Ndhlovu, Natasha Rwambiwa, Vimbai Chibi (captain), Yemurai Seven, Lethukuthula Nxumalo, Praise Garira, Thandiwe Mashore, Faith Mutero.