The Herald Latwell Nyangu Youth Interactive Writer College has amazing experiences and completing a degree can feel like the proudest moment of a person’s life. But the student experience isn’t for everyone. Some people don’t want to study full-time at a university, others don’t want to study at all. If you are put off by the high fees that colleges ask for, or wondering how to have a good life without college, read on. The good news is that it’s still possible to be successful without a degree. And most importantly, we can’t all be number one, yet we can still find other avenues. While some become number one, others will be following and still make strides in life. It’s something almost everyone has been taught, all over the world that If you fail, you won’t succeed. A college education has been equated to success, but it wasn’t always really explained to those being taught about this. It’s been drilled into the heads of all students: Doing well in school a passport  to future success. But how true is it? Are good grades statistically shown to precede career success, higher earnings and entrepreneurial leadership? Earning a good grade is not only a measure of subject matter knowledge or intelligence. Instead, it’s a composite of knowledge, skills and personality traits. Students who earn good grades in college don’t face the same downward pressure as those who scrape by, so top students may have a leg up when setting their career paths. That did them no service, in the end. Why is education so important? What happens if we don’t get one? And are there alternative options that let us get outside of the traditional college experience? Being a college student comes with a lot of hard work. No matter what your future plans are, it’s important to do your best in your studies. This is especially true of those courses that relate directly to your major. When I got the admission call from my academic institution, it was a dream come true to study with extraordinary colleagues. Soon I realised it was not easy to be a part of the best place; you have to sacrifice all your comfort to get going, to perform and to climb the Gaussian curve. Many highly intelligent people are poor thinkers. Many people of average intelligence are skilled thinkers. The power of a car is separate from the way the car is driven, said Edward de Bono. The war of grades became so fiercely that the advantage of diversity, lifetime friendships and sense of collaboration got overruled. Sooner, I realized to be a part of the race that ends where it starts and not doing well means resentment and depression. Having mixed grades in the first term motivated me to go for better grades in the second term, and I scored the best possible grade in all four subjects for which the results are declared as of now. Grades measure your performance in school, while intelligence measures your performance in life in general, but there is life after failing. We can’t be all number one, but we can still fit in somewhere. Good grades make you feel amazing, but at the same time, they give us an illusion of being intelligent and proficient in a subject. Whereas learning generates intelligence and intelligence measures your performance in life. But not having top grades doesn’t mean, you can’t be among the best. We lose too many talented people by defining intelligence through exams that are wholly inadequate and constricting. Your education may become outdated in the next five years, but your attitude, your connections and your learnings will be lifelong. Remember, nobody gives a damn about your mark sheets more than YOU during an interview. As my programme director at IIM Calcutta said during the closing ceremony, these certificates are just pieces of paper, you yourself hold the key to your success. The toughest question, is how you define success. I am much less successful than many in my career field. There are those in my profession who have succeeded far more than I, without having an MBA. There are also people I know who are less successful than I who have multiple graduate degrees. Some of it is what you apply yourself to do. There are many career paths that don’t rely on degrees to open the door to great jobs. Assuming you want a traditional career path! Many of the innovators and successful people in the world have one thing in common – they didn’t quit or accept rejection. Forge your own path with what skills you have. We forget to let people shine based upon their personality styles, modalities of communication, attitudes, talents, gifts, and abilities. Or, even worse, we simply don’t bother to care or to find out. Imagine what it would be like if everyone on your team was in the right position. But, sometimes, more often than seems entirely reassuring, something confusing occurs: we come across people who triumphed at school – but flunked in life. And vice versa. We need to know the true meaning of education. Knowledge is potential power, wisdom is real power. One thing I would like to say is that a person who is morally educated will be a lot better equipped to move up in life or succeed than a morally bankrupt person, with excellent academic qualification. Education is a must-have when it comes to your career and life, in general. Without it, you won’t get the high income or success to help you through life. An education can only ever improve how you live. Each year, millions of students will ask why it matters if they get an A or a C in class. Still, students work hard to complete the required course with the best grade possible. We can’t all be number one, but can still make it in life!