The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Fashion 263 Hello June, winter has officially arrived. It’s the darkest and often the coldest of the seasons, but with chill and the possible cold comes ample moments for cozy retreat and hibernation. Who doesn’t love curling up with a winter cocktail by the fireplace, snuggling up with a blanket and indulging a bit. That means fashion is included and it being chaotic, it can be an aggravation, too, but it is at its best when it allows you to express yourself. You need to know that the cold temperatures can be dangerous, please stay safe and healthy by planning ahead. Fashion guru Joyce Chimanye once said that with the temperature decreasing, you need to prepare your home and vehicles. “You should prepare for power outages and outdoor activity. Check on older adults,” she said. Although winter comes as no surprise, many of us may not be ready for its arrival. Just “winter-proof” your home. Install weather stripping and insulate water lines that run along exterior walls. Clean out gutters and repair roof leaks and mostly importantly check your heating systems. Have your heating system been serviced professionally to make sure that it is clean, working properly, and ventilated to the outside. Inspect and clean fireplaces and chimneys. Then last Monday on Capitalk FM, I had a chat with DJ Sqkatta on men and grooming. Well, of late men’s grooming is now as much an essential as a well-curated wardrobe and a working knowledge of a (natural) wine list. There’s no shame involved. On the contrary, shame only presents itself when you don’t have a daily routine. The secret is to appear understated: be the man who looks after himself without a low-level radiation glow or some funny clown like eyebrows. As with many things in this life, less is more when it comes to grooming. That means it pays to find essentials that work for you – for your skin, for your hair type. The trick isn’t to spend a fortune on 1 000 different products, or to lock yourself in the bathroom for hours at a time. Rather, you should develop a daily routine that is quick, simple and − above all else − about straightforward maintenance that even the most product-averse man can easily pick up and run with. ◆ Become a regular at the barber Get into the habit of regular stays in the barber’s chair: if you have noticed your hair needs a trim, then others have too. That means you get proactive. While some guys can settle for monthly appointments, your locks may still enjoy a growth spurt, thus requiring increased attention. Don’t be surprised if it takes tri-weekly, or even fortnightly visits and also know which hair products work for you. ◆ Find your signature scent Colognes and aftershaves are built to complement, not knock passers-by out cold. So, use sparingly, and rather than owning eight to ten average scents, find one or two classic blends that you really like. Then, invest. Typically, woody, spicy or herb scents work in the winter, while lighter, citrus-based notes are better-suited to summer. You may not always notice when someone is using it, but you definitely notice when they aren’t using it. A good deodorant will neutralise any natural musk and allow your eau de parfum to bloom. Bonus if it has an antiperspirant to stop your underarms from going moist. Here are some of our pointers you should take note of before adding a deodorant into your cart: Deodorants are not necessarily always antiperspirants − look out for the term while shopping. You don’t need antiperspirant if you’re just headed to the gym or the beach as the whole point is to work up a sweat and perspire. But if you’re feeling courteous, it doesn’t take much effort to apply. Most fragrance houses (think Le Labo and Tom Ford’s Private Blend make deodorants that complement their signature perfumes, a factor you should consider if you’re already using their products. “100% natural” deodorants refer to them being aluminium-free – it is the ingredient used in antiperspirants that stop your pits from sweating. Instead, they might use clay or baking soda to absorb moisture. Stop using your deodorant if it’s making your skin uncomfortable. There are skin-sensitive options that would be gentler for you. ◆ Scrub your face Flannels won’t cut it. A well-chosen scrub − concoctions specially designed to slough away deceased skin − is a weekly essential to keep skin in its best condition. Your gleaming face shouldn’t come at the planet’s expensive, though. Opt for natural ingredients, like oats, or apricot kernels, as opposed to microbeads that work the way up the food chain, and end up on your plate. ◆ Put your best feet forward They might not be on show that often, but a good foot care routine is still important. Take care of them after a bath or shower (when the skin is softest) using a pumice stone on any dead skin, before lathering a generous amount of moisturiser on. Then, when summer rolls back around, you can wear your some incredibly sharp, utilitarian sandals, and cause minimal disgust in your holiday compatriots. ◆ Nail your hand-care routine Cutting your nails once a week − preferably after a bath or shower, to soften them and make them easier to trim − is basic. But that rough, flaky skin around the nail bed? Treat with a tiny bit of moisturiser every couple of days to smooth things over.