The Herald Reginald Chirenje Youth Interactive Writer When the young generation approach YouTube from an analytical creator’s angle, the site automatically becomes more than just for entertainment or for quick tutorials. They can learn skills and strategies they will need to build a following and potentially monetise the channels while learning valuable skills and being inspired by other great YouTubers to keep the momentum going. Last Mhlanga is a young man aged 21 who resides in Harare. He was born and raised in Chipinge where he attained his secondary school at Chipangayi Secondary School before his family moved to Harare. The young man always had a bigger vision of making dreams come true by embracing YouTube positively for himself. YouTube is an American online video sharing and social media platform. It is the second largest platform where users search for information. “This is a place where you can learn and gain prominent knowledge from online tutorials, it is so easy to grab knowledge. As a result YouTube has become the second largest hub of information next to Google” said Mhlanga. YouTube videos became an effective medium for brand building of many companies and organizations especially during the era of lockdowns. The young man was able to share how his channel boosted in terms of subscribers. Mhlanga was the first young Zimbabwean to reach 20 000 subscribers in less than a year. His account has more than 50k subscribers. The account mainly focuses on entertainment, life teachings and motivational speeches. “If you are specialising in something, you deserve attention. It’s the right time to create your own channel and impress viewers from all corners of the world with your personal abilities. “All you need is to focus on your interests and roll out the idea through videos as a way of showing the audience your work,” added Mhlanga. Despite its problems, YouTube has many advantages which include improvement in the learning environment, remote access, cost savings, money earnings, stress relief and talent expression above all. “YouTube is also a place and platform where the youths are able to showcase their personal abilities and talents. “It can be education or entertainment, YouTube provides a chance for everyone to upload videos and become famous,” Mhlanga said. Irrespective of gender, race and age groups YouTube offers many benefits to the users. Hence its  a vital platform for the society since it can be used for awareness of societal social issues such as bullying, suicide and drug abuse.