The Herald Farirai Machivenyika Arts Reporter Ireland-based Zimbabwe hip-hop artiste, Godknows Jonas, has expressed confidence of the growth of his music on the international stage ahead of the release of his latest single today. The single titled “Twelve 61” was done in collaboration with his cousin Zim dancehall star Jah Master. The title of the song was derived from house number 1261 in St Mary’s Chitungwiza, owned by his grandmother. Jonas, who is a nephew to the late musician and liberation war hero, Dickson “Chinx” Chingaira, has been active on the music scene since he was 13 and took part in the tour of Ireland by US hip hop veteran Snoop Doggy Dogg. “I’m 31 years old, I moved to Ireland at the age of nine with my family,” he said. “I started music at 13 years with my friends and my career professionally took off at 18 while my first big break came during a national tour with Snoop Dogg in 2014. “My vision for the future is to take my music and creativity as far and as big as I can, raising the country’s flag high.” The song, whose beat is derived from Cde Chinx’s classic, “Vanhu VemuAfrica,” talks about Jonas’ background, among other issues. “My friend and collaborator Ian (BOKU) read an article of me talking about my uncle Chinx Chingaira in The Sunday Times and decide to make a beat, sampling a song made famous by the latter,” he said. “Fast forward a couple of weeks later, one of those rare times I found myself on Facebook and as luck would have it, another uncle of mine was congratulating Jah Master on his success and after consulting with my dad, I found out he too was a relative. “We were in fact cousins and he grew up blocks away from that “1261” street number where my grandmother’s house is, hence the title of the song,” he said. Jonas said he will launch an album, “We move the needle,” next month. Jah Master said it was growing up in the ghetto that helped them write the song, including their experiences. He said it was every kid’s wish that when they grow up (especially from the ghetto) that they go all the way to the top. “It was mine, and I thank God that bit by bit I am managing to attain some of the things I wished for, although I feel like I haven’t reached the peak,” said Jah Master. “I think that will make us keep on persevering up until we reach our destiny.”