The Herald Crime Reporter The High Court Sherriff, McDuff Madega who was recently arrested for suspected criminal abuse of office and the illegal sale of properties attached by the courts is facing a total of 19 counts of abuse of office which are being probed. The Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission (Zacc) said they were still investigating all the cases that were reported against Madega. This comes after several people claimed to have lost houses on account of Madega’s actions and made reports to Zacc. Madega, who allegedly auctioned a property twice without disclosing to parties involved sometime in 2012, appeared in court last Thursday, charged with fraud. He was not asked to plead to the charges when he appeared before magistrate Mr Stanford Mambanje who remanded him to July 28 on $20 000 bail. The Herald has it on good authority that Madega is also being investigated for suspected criminal abuse of office and the illegal sale of more than 19 properties attached by the courts. According to reports, he is accused of working with a cartel of officials in his office, lawyers, auctioneers and officials at the Deeds Office to target people whose properties would have been attached by the courts.  These latest cases that involve the improper sale of the seized properties have been reported to Zacc. Some of the complainants are Mr John Amon Chinyanganya who is accusing Madega of selling his Harare house with a fake deed at an auction (under case number HCR 58/07/21), Green Energy Company for illegally authorising the sale of goods and motor vehicle by a public auction (HCR 25/08/2021, Abigail Mutize for unlawfully and corruptly selling their Mabelreign house and changing title deed before full payment (HCR 89/06/2020), Piwayi Chiutsi for fraudulently attaching his property and declaring a local company Bariadie Investments as highest bidder but had never participated during the auction (HCR 31/07/ 2021) and Francis Masawi who is accusing Madega of abusing his power to sell his property (HCR 18/05/2020). Others are Bryn Michael Baxter who is accusing him of conniving with a relative to fraudulently registering an estate (HCR 116/09/21), Rufaro Shiri is accusing him of colluding with a company that is not registered (HCR 126/09/21), Tendai Matanga alleged that he won three civil suits which he handed over to Madega who failed to act (HCR 36/10/18), Gunike Makwira who is claiming that his properties were sold without following the procedures (HCR 18/05/21) and Hilton Tserayi who is accusing him of fraudulently auctioning his vehicle worth US$15 000 for US$100. When contacted for comment, Zacc spokesperson Commissioner Mr John Makamure said they were conducting investigations on all cases brought to them against Madega. “We are investigating all the cases that were reported to Zacc pertaining to the Sheriff, in addition to the charges that he was recently arrested for,” he said. Madega will appear in court once investigations have been finalised.