The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter BLACK Rhinos coach Herbert Maruwa yesterday said the mid-season break was key for his team as they gear up for a difficult second half of the campaign which begins with an away trip to Highlanders next week. The army side, which was unbeaten in seven games before the break, returned to training on Tuesday as clubs brace for the upcoming challenges after a three-week mid-season break. “We haven’t lost sight of the task ahead of us. We know we face Highlanders in our next assignment at Barbourfields and this is not an easy game. “Remember we beat them (2-0) in the first leg but that is all water under the bridge now. I believe a lot of things have changed since we last played that game. They have a new coach and obviously a new approach. “The second round matches are not easy because teams will be playing with a definite purpose. Some will be chasing the title while others are either fighting relegation or will be aiming a respectable finish. “I am happy with the progress we have made to date. We are currently unbeaten in a number of games but we are not relaxing because we know there is still a long way to go. If anything, we are looking to double our efforts for the second round matches so that we can stay competitive,” said Maruwa. Besides, rejuvenating their players, the break was crucial for Rhinos as it gave time to some of their injured players like Farai Banda, Keith Madera and Congolese forward Eli Ilunga to recover. “We had some knocks in our squad. The injured players have improved and hopefully some of them will be back when the games resume”, said Maruwa. Maruwa said they are also looking to bolster his squad when the transfer window opens next month. Rhinos have already snapped up defender Dennis Dauda, who was recently sacked by giants CAPS United for allegedly leading a boycott over unpaid dues. The defender is set to be registered when the transfer window opens. Bosso have appointed expatriate coach Baltemer Jose De Oliveira Brito. They are currently 10th on the log standings. But Highlanders were yesterday counting their losses after they were found guilty and fined by the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League Disciplinary Committee for the violence that rocked their match against FC Platinum. Bosso were slapped with a US$6 000 fine to take their tally in the last five years to US$68 142 in fines for various offences. In addition to the fine, the match which was abandoned with six minutes remaining following crowd trouble at Mandava, was awarded to FC Platinum on a 3-0 scoreline. The match was abandoned after 84 minutes with the scores level 1-1 after supporters stormed the pitch in protest against a penalty awarded to FC Platinum. While Bosso continue to languish in the bottom half of the table, FC Platinum are now second on the log standings with 34 points, one behind leaders Chicken Inn, at the halfway stage of the campaign. The platinum miners went to the mid-season break on a high after winning their last four  games in succession. They face Tenax away in their next game. Almost all the teams have returned to training ahead of the resumption. Giants Dynamos were back in training on Wednesday, after conducting a financial literacy workshop for their players and officials. The Glamour Boys will resume their campaign against Yadah next week Saturday.