The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter WITH two athletes having qualified for the World Championships, the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe president Tendai Tagara said they remain optimistic despite the limited numbers of athletes making the cut for such competitions. The World Championships are set to run from July 15 to 24 in Eugene, Oregon, United States. United States-based triple jumper Chengetayi Mapaya and marathon runner Isaac Mpofu are expected to represent the country at the championships next month after attaining the qualification standards. The qualification period for marathon and 35km race walk closed on May 29. For 10 000m, 20km race walk, relays and combined events and all other disciplines, including track and field, close tomorrow.  It has been another difficult season as most of the local athletes struggled to meet the qualifying standards. Although they may not have as many athletes at next month’s World Championships, Tagara said they are content to be sending qualified athletes for the meet. “The World Championships (qualification) is done. I am happy to have qualified athletes than sending representatives. “It’s an indication we will have more for next year’s World Championships as the situation gets better. I am happy that at least we have got athletes going to the World Championships on qualification,” said Tagara. NAAZ fielded one athlete at the Olympics last year when they were awarded a universality slot after those that were in the running for qualification failed to meet the qualifying times. Just like in 2019, local sprinters will not be part of the proceedings at next month’s World Championships. Zimbabwe had five athletes at the previous edition made up of four marathon runners – Mpofu, Ngonidzashe Ncube, Munyaradzi Jari and Rutendo Nyahora and triple jumper Mapaya. The NAAZ president said they need to focus on home-based solutions, which need resources if they are to have more athletes making the grade for global competitions. “The challenge with track is our best sprinters are in the United States but they are not getting best coaches. Some qualified for the World Junior Championships but now they are failing to qualify for the Senior World Championships. “As we develop these athletes, they are identified at junior level and they leave for America, it’s a dream and you cannot deny them that. So (track) it’s going to be a challenge until we have a home grown solution like Botswana…but it needs resources,” said Tagara. With less than a month to go before the competition starts, Tagara is confident Mapaya and Mpofu will leave a mark at the World Championships. “Scientifically, Mapaya is in the top 10, in the world. If he can keep the momentum getting to the World Championships, he can be in the final. “Our hope is Mpofu will run sub-2:10. The world will open for him for marathon, all big races they invite the top 10. He can also be in the top 20 at the World Championships, that is good for opening opportunities for better packages,” said Tagara. Speaking to The Herald early this week, Mpofu said his target is to improve his time. He ran 2hours 10minutes 24seconds to qualify for the World Championships. “I surely have targets. I am trying my best to run under 2:10 in a marathon,” said Mpofu.