The Herald LONDON. — Manchester United have agreed a deal worth up to £74million for top target Frenkie de Jong, according to reports. New Red Devils boss Erik ten Hag has made former Ajax star De Jong his No. 1 target at Old Trafford. United have been locked in negotiations with Barcelona for weeks, and appear to have finally made a breakthrough. According to Fabrizio Romano, the Red Devils have agreed to pay an initial £56m for the midfielder. He claims that the “full package” will rise to £74m after add-ons. ESPN add that the exact nature of the performance-based add-ons are yet to be fully agreed. Personal terms are also still to settled upon, with talks to continue this week. Ten Hag is hoping to have De Jong available for United’s pre-season tour of Thailand and Australia next month. The Red Devils will jet east on July 8. United are desperate to bolster their midfield after a number of high-profile exits. Paul Pogba, Nemanja Matic, Jesse Lingard and Juan Mata have all departed on free transfers. United are also hoping to tempt Christian Eriksen to Old Trafford, although the Dane could choose to stay at Brentford. The Red Devils are also keen on Ajax winger Antony, although are some way off the Eredivisie side’s £70m valuation. Meanwhile, Tottenham Hotspur are ready to seal a £100 million deal with Everton for Richarlison and Anthony Gordon. Spurs have offered £80m plus a further £20m based on appearances for the two Goodison Park stars. Everton are willing to sell £50m-rated Richarlison — who is also a target of Chelsea — and the Brazilian is desperate to move elsewhere. But the Merseyside club’s board have been adamant they will not sell England Under-21 winger Gordon who is a massive fans’ favourite. Tottenham are hoping the massive double offer will be too good to turn down. They have made a firm move to sign both players as they know Everton are in a difficult financial situation. The club needs to cut debts by the financial year end which is this week. This is to comply with the English Premier League’s profit and sustainability rules. Technically, Everton face penalties including a point deduction if they do not make a major sale this week. Tottenham are already enjoying a decent transfer window. They have signed Ivan Perisic from Inter Milan and Brighton’s Yves Bissouma along with Southampton keeper Fraser Forster. Chairman Daniel Levy reportedly dined with Everton counterpart Bill Kenwright in Mayfair last night. According to the BBC’s Jon Sopel, Levy and Kenwright met at Scott’s. The plush eatery is located in Mayfair and specialises in seafood. A fish of the day for two order would set you back £90, while a grilled lobster costs £58. Spurs are chasing a new forward to support Harry Kane and Son Heung-min. — The Sun