The Herald Enacy Mapakame CHINESE mining company Ming-Chang Sino-Africa has commended the obtaining operating environment in Zimbabwe as friendly and committed to strengthening its ties with local communities through job creation and providing basic social services. Currently, the company has mining operations in Kwekwe and Shamva area where it has helped the local communities with road, education and healthcare infrastructure. The mining company’s efforts complement initiatives that strengthen ties between Zimbabwe and China. Ming Chang’s vice president Xing Shanshan said the company would continue investing in social service delivery as part of its commitment to giving back to the communities they operate. She said emphasis would be on education and health which are basic human rights. “Zimbabwe is a great nation, her people are diligent and friendly, the spirit of the students encourage everyone around, especially us, we are more willing to participate in sponsoring education in order to make our due contribution in this regard,” she said in Shamva at an official handover ceremony of scholarships to underprivileged students at Ming-Chang Primary School, which the company developed in 2016 and handed to Government. She further revealed the company would start construction of another school in Kwekwe after finalising on the modalities. Construction of the school is expected to start before end of this year, and will be handed to Government to cater for local students adjacent to their plant in the area. “Ming-Chang Sino-Africa has been developing and flourishing in Zimbabwe for quite a number of years, and without the support of the local communities and people, we would not have gained these remarkable achievements.“We always feel grateful for Zimbabwe and her people. As is known to all, education is not only the future of the citizens, but also the future of the country. It gives me great pleasure to make contribution to the success of the students. “The investment of education is already built in our blueprint of company development, in the past years, we have put more importance in sponsoring education,” she said.