The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter THE much-anticipated top-of-the-table ZIFA Northern Region Division One Soccer League match between Golden Eagles and Simba Bhora, scheduled for this afternoon at Ellis Robbins, was postponed after the death of Barnabas Mushunje who died in a car accident on Tuesday. Mushunje was turning out for Simba Bhora and was laid to rest yesterday at his home area in Bocha in Manicaland. ZIFA Northern Region Division One League said they have postponed the match as they give log leaders Simba Bhora time to mourn their player. The NRSL chairman, Martin Kweza, said they are saddened by the untimely death of Mushunje and are with his family during this time of mourning. “We have learnt with deep sorrow the passing on of Mushunje and we are with his family during these difficult times. The match between Simba Bhora and Golden Eagles will be cancelled to give Simba Bhora time to mourn their star. All NRSL matches should observe a moment of silence before kick-off,” said Kweza. The other matches will see title chasing Herentals Under-20 taking on Chinhoyi Stars and coach Paul Benza said they are taking it as any other game which needs serious attention and concentration. ‘’There are no small teams as we are in the same league and we are taking the game seriously as we want maximum points. We are happy that we resumed the second half with a win and we need to continue from there. “The race is wide open as we are just coming from the mid-season break,” said Benza. Meanwhile, it will be a battle of supremacy at Mabvuku Number One ground when Ali Sundowns take on Mabvuku United in a ZIFA Division Two match this afternoon. The match, dubbed ‘’Mabvuku Derby’’, has always attracted a packed stadium and the two sides will be meeting for the second time after they also clashed in the Africa Day Challenge match which was won by Mabvuku United 1-0. Ali Sundowns owner, Desmond “The Village Pope” Ali, said it will be revenge time and they are looking forward to a tough encounter. ZIFA Northern Region Division One Soccer League Fixtures Today: Herentals Under-20 v Chinhoyi Stars (Motor Action 1pm), Karoi United v Black Mambas (Chikangwe), Commando Bullets v Trojan Stars (Commando), CUM Academy v PAM United (Rimuka), Ngezi Platinum Under-19 v Cam and Motor (Boabab). Central Region Fixtures Today: FC Platinum Under-19 v Sheasham (Mandava), Filabusi United v MSU (Filabusi), Loss Control v Chapungu (Greasham), Vumbachikwe v Bishopstone (Long John), Dulibadzimu v Kwekwe United (Dulibadzimu), Telone v Tongogara (Ascot). Tomorrow: Paramount United v ZPC Munyati (ZRP Gokwe).