The Herald Sports Reporter Herentals . . . . . . . . . . . .  (1) 2 Harare City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 HERENTALS ended their four-match winless streak in the Castle Lager Premiership yesterday when they got the second half of the season underway with a fine victory over Harare City at the National Sports Stadium. The Students appeared to have made full use of the mid-season break to turn around their fortunes after experiencing a string of draws in their last four outings before the recess. Their last victory was against FC Platinum at the same venue on April 30. But Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva and his troops exorcised their demons during the half-season break to bounce back in style, with a goal in either half, to condemn struggling Harare City to a worse run of five games without a win. Herentals forward Tino Benza got the opener in the 14th minute and Blessing Majarira extended the lead through a penalty in the 73rd minute. The Students now have 24 points in 18 games and have risen to sixth place in the log standings. Mutiwekuziva said scoring has been their Achilles Heel and they were forced to rely on John Zhuwawu on most occasions. “It was a good performance by the boys. We managed to resist Harare City’s early attacks by defending well. We also utilised chances that came our way,” said Mutiwekuziva. “The break gave us a fresh impetus and we had time to reflect and work on our scoring problem, which was our biggest concern. “I am happy that today (yesterday), we managed to have two different names on the score sheet. This means we now have many players that we can expect to provide goals in any game,” said Mutiwekuziva. Harare City, who were in the same predicament as their rivals going into this match, continued to sing the blues as they remained rooted in 11th place with 18 points from as many games. The council side’s last win was against Ngezi Platinum on April 30. They went on to draw three games on the trot. Before the break, they lost to Highlanders 1-0 at Barbourfields.