The Herald Thupeyo Muleya Beitbridge Bureau The National security Task Force (NTF) last Thursday evening shot and killed an alleged armed robber who was part of a 10-member gang that was in the habit of terrorising migrants and smugglers along the Limpopo River. The gang would target those people entering and leaving the country through illegal crossing points closer to the old Limpopo Bridge. On the fateful day, the man whose identity is yet to be revealed had pounced on a couple on a footpath near the Alfred Beitbridge and robbed them of R5000 after attacking them with knives. It is reported that the suspects would use knives and guns to subdue their victims. National police spokesperson, Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi said they were not relenting in their quest to get rid of criminal elements along the border with South Africa. “We will release the now deceased’s details in due course and at the moment we are still pursuing other gang members,” he said. “Preliminary investigations reveal that the now deceased suspect who was in the company of nine others who are still at large and were armed with knives came across a couple that was walking towards Zimbabwe from the South Africa side of the border. “They then encircled them and stabbed the husband with knives on the hands and took from him R5000, his wife managed to escape and she alerted our security agents on our side who swiftly reacted.”  Continued Asst Comm Nyathi, “When the security team arrived, they found the gang further stripping the complainant of his belongings and fired warning shots, but the gang charged at them and they opened fire killing one of the suspects.” \
He said soon after the shooting other gang members escaped to the South African side of the Limpopo River. Asst Comm Nyathi said further investigations into the matter were underway. He warned people against using illegal crossing points to leave or enter the country or to move goods. “Those engaging in such activities are risking their lives and if found they will be arrested. As the police, we also want to assure the nation that those engaging in crime along our borders will be arrested. We will not fold our hands, the security agents are in control and on top of the situation,” said Asst Comm Nyathi. The incident comes a few weeks after the other gang members were jailed for 10 months following their arrest at the Limpopo River while armed with an assortment of firearms and ammunition. Munyaradzi Ncube (27), Elphas Chigudugudze (34), and Tafara Moyo (30) of Kwekwe, Gwanda, and Buhera respectively were busted by the NTF while coming from South Africa through an illegal crossing point near the Chinyampanze area. They had two Berretta Gordon Gardiner pistols, one Vektor CPI Pistol, and an assortment of ammunition. The trio was convicted on their own plea of guilt when they appeared before Beitbridge Regional Magistrate Mr Innocent Bepura today charged for contravening a section of the Firearms Act (unlawful possession of a firearm or ammunition without a license). Ncube and crew have another pending armed robbery case that they committed in September last year.