The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S 4x100m relay team yesterday put up remarkable performance to claim a bronze medal at the on-going Africa Senior Championships at the Cote d’Or National Sports Complex in Mauritius. The team made up of Dickson Kamungeremu, Ngoni Makusha, Denzel Siamulela and Tapiwa Makarawu came third in 39.81seconds to win a bronze medal. Kenya emerged winners with a time of 39.28seconds. South Africa were second in 39.79seconds.  Zimbabwe booked their place in the final on Thursday when they came second in heat one with a time of 39.75seconds. And yesterday the team put up a good fight to win Zimbabwe’s first medal at the ongoing meet after a disappointing show on the opening day, on Wednesday, when most of the athletes bowed out in the heats, in 100m and 400m events. Coach Lisimati Phakamile was full of praise for the team and said they did put up good performance against a strong field. “It is quite an exciting moment and turning point for Zimbabwe. The boys ran very well against very bad weather conditions in Mauritius. “We are very excited as a team and as a country that finally we have managed to step on the podium and we want to thank all the boys in the team for their courage, for their zeal and for their spirit. “They exceptionally ran well against a strong field of (Ferdinand) Omanyala leading Kenya, Akani Simbine leading South Africa and a strong side from Botswana with an athlete running 9.9s as well as Nigeria with a medallist in the 100m, yet our boys combined very well and did very well. “I am actually excited and delighted that finally we have led a group of boys to pick up a medal. “But we remain focused and we remain determined to try and chase again for more medals in the remaining events and also in the coming editions, and other athletics competitions that are coming,” said Phakamile. In the women’s 100m hurdles final, Ashley Miller missed out on the podium when she settled for fifth place in 13.30seconds. Makusha, Siamulela and Makarawu are expected back on the track this morning for the 200m event. United States-based Kudakwashe Chadenga is also up for the high jump event today. Phakamile believes yesterday’s performance is a motivation to the athletes as they return to competition today. “It has motivated the boys to push harder as they have seen it’s possible,” said Phakamile. The curtain comes down on the championships tomorrow.