The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter GIANTS Dynamos have lined up a series of financial intelligence workshops to help their players appreciate the importance of investing their earnings to avoid falling into destitution at the end of their careers. Club spokesperson Tinashe Farawo said they have engaged experts to talk to their players about their finances. He said the Glamour Boys want to prepare the players for the uncertainties of the future. DeMbare are currently enjoying sound sponsorship from Sakunda Holdings and have experienced a period of tranquillity and good returns on the field of play. “We would want to ensure that our players understand how money works. So this workshop was basically about enlightening them how to make hay while the sun shines. “This is important because we have to avoid the problems that have been faced by football players in the past. We don’t want this crop of players to also live a life of regret. “It’s quite unfortunate we have seen some players trying to come back and claim welfare at the club yet they have long since left the club and are not owed anything. “So we want these players to appreciate the importance of saving for the future and making investments that would sustain them after their careers are done. “Football is a short career and time is always not on the players’ side. “We also want them to appreciate that football is a profession. We have to remove that thinking that footballers are people who are reckless with their lives. “So this is an ongoing process which we hope players will take seriously. We have to do this continuously so that we equip our players for life after football. “They are being taught life skills. They have to know that they are a big brand which needs to be respected and cultivated. The response has been good. Everyone was enthusiastic about the programme and we hope to have more of these in the future,” said Farawo. The workshop was conducted by Gabriel Chipara of Mantis Africa. Dynamos vice-captain Godknows Murwira said the workshop was an eye-opener. “We attended a financial literacy workshop about how to use money wisely and how people get to know how to spend. I have learnt that it doesn’t matter how much you earn. “What matters most is how to use it wisely. I have learnt about savings.