The Herald Reginald Chirenje Youth Interactive Writer “Every great dream begins with a dreamer.  Always remember you have within yourself the strength, patience and passion to reach for the stars to reach the world,” once said a philosopher. Popular, 22 year-old talented athlete and soccer star Joshua Panashe Murefu who hails from Glen Norah has said that passion and determination has made him a star. The young man is a first year student, studying Political Sciences and Diplomacy at the University of Zimbabwe. He has amassed 26 individual awards which include medals, trophies and shields from tournaments he participated in. “Passion is what motivates me to do things that I love. “It is that strong desire that allows us to create something extraordinary, the power and fuel that keeps the fire burning. Being passionate about something gives you a sense of purpose as a human being” said Joshua. The young and energetic athlete’s passion has taken him around the world with passion. Such a talent is rare to find in the country and the world at large. The effort and inspiration itself is different in showing how the young man is passionate, maximization of effort and inspirational in goal attaining. “Comfort can prevent you from your passion in life, just as contentment breeds complacency. “When we are interested, we tend to do what is convenient, but when we are committed, we do whatever it takes towards our goals,” Joshua added. Passion alone might not bring the goal home, but rather in support of effort. A great achievement can be considered as a great effort. It has to do with how hard one is trying. If something is easy it does not take much effort but if hard. Hence it is about trying to get something done, even though it does not always work. Despite his achievements, Joshua has faced a lot of challenges which include injuries, discrimination and lack of  financial assistance. He recounted how he once missed the  Confederation of School Sport Associations of Southern Africa (COSSASA) national tournament due to lack of a passport and personal sports kit. “The problems and challenges I may face at times as a dedicated athlete may not be enough to demotivate me from pursuing my dream because I have  already told myself that sport is now part of my life despite drawbacks. “When we feel the passion in our lives, we have a more positive outlook, higher energy and greater confidence. We are not merely going through the motions, but actively taking steps to create the success that we want. Passion is the energy resource that fuels our success in life”. Joshua said. To all the young generation in a society who aspire to be athletes, hard work and consistency keeps you moving. These two will drive you towards your goals and always choose positive over negative thoughts.