The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter NGEZI Platinum Stars interim coach Takesure Chiragwi has been given the mandate to see off the Castle Lager Premiership football season with the club executive using the period to assess him for a substantive role. The former CAPS United left-back is in temporary charge of the Mhondoro-based side following the departure of Benjani Mwaruwari who was ousted for poor performance last week. This is not the first time that Chiragwi has been handed the reins at Ngezi Platinum as he was also assigned to oversee the team in six league matches early this year after the retirement of coach Rodwell Dhlakama. Chiragwi won two of those matches while losing and drawing as many. The club opted to retain him in the system for institutional memory when Mwaruwari was appointed and brought his own assistant Bongani Mafu. However, both Mwaruwari and Mafu were accused by players, who opened up after the pair’s ouster, of dividing the team through gossiping. But, there is a feel of what has been missing during Mwaruwari’s stint with Ngezi Platinum playing their best game this year in their 2-0 win over Triangle at Baobab on Sunday. There are still some 11 games to be played before the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season comes to an end and Chiragwi has been given all the time to prove if he can fit the big shoes at the helm of the club. There is a general consensus in the top echelons of the team that Chiragwi could be the man who can be trusted with steering the club to greatness. Club spokesperson, Roberta Katunga, revealed the team will consider Chiragwi for a substantive role. The diminutive coach did not tender his application back in March when Mwaruwari was appointed. “The club will follow due process in appointing a substantive coach but Takesure Chiragwi’s current assignment will remain in place until a substantive coach is appointed,” said Katunga. “He has the experience and qualifications required to be appointed substantive head coach of any club in the Premier League. “As a result, when the club decides to appoint a substantive head coach, he will be considered.” And the work is cut out for Chiragwi to prove to the club leadership he is capable of leading one of the most ambitious teams on land. Already, he has shown some glimpses and he has added three new names to galvanise the cause for the remainder of the season. Former FC Platinum and Marumo Gallants midfielder Farai Madhanaga has joined the team and he could be available for the team’s next league assignment against Cranborne Bullets. The 27-year-old has since signed his contract and was at the Baobab Stadium on Sunday cheering his new teammates on in their victory against Triangle. Chiragwi has also re-registered Ghanaian defender Derrick Bonna as he moves to add more steel at the back. Bonna was de-registered by the club at the insistence of Mwaruwari just when the former Warriors skipper was appointed in March. He has been training and getting his salary from the team since then but had grown frustrated given the de-registration was done without his knowledge and has been pestering Mwaruwari to loan him out. But, Chiragwi, who used Bonna in some of his games during the short stint he was in charge, facilitated for the re-registration of the defender who can also play in midfield. Another midfielder Tapiwa Mandinyenya is also at the team and the Young Warriors man is also expected to give Ngezi Platinum some depth.