The Herald Lovemore Kadzura in RUSAPE Manica Diamonds  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1) 1 Yadah  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(1) 1 MANICA Diamonds failed to utilise their home advantage against Yadah and were duly held to a draw in this Castle Lager Premiership football match at Vengere yesterday. Both side scored in the first half and the Gem Boys had a goal disallowed for off-side in the second half The visitors were the first to settle down and dictated the pace of the game but found the Gems Boys’ defence, marshaled by veteran Temba Ndlovu, difficult to penetrate. Yadah midfielder Fortune Binzi was very unfortunate in the 28th minute when he drove the ball into the opponents box after outpacing Manica defenders but his shot hit the post with goalkeeper, Jorum Muchambo, a well beaten man. In the 32nd minute, Yadah defender Alick Freddy, who had no challenger failed, to deal with a Manica Diamonds harmless cross and chested the ball into his own net and gifted the Gem Boys the lead. Ten minutes later Binzi, who had perfect game, restored parity when he received an assist from Clive Mandivei inside the box and fired the ball past Muchambo. Veteran Ralph “Banolila” Matema had his shot on the stroke of half-time saved by Muchambo. Two minutes into the second half, Manica’s Talent Chamboko could have registered his name on the score-sheet but his powerful shot, after being fed by Lloyd Katongomara, hit the upright post. Manica Diamonds thought they have taken the lead on 53rd minute when a Chamboko shot was deflected by a Yadah defender and unmarked Nyasha Chintuli headed past goalkeeper Panashe Nyabunga but assistant referee flagged him for off-side. Binzi in 63rd minute had his shot pushed away for a corner by the experienced Muchambo.  Manica Diamonds coach Johanisi Nhumwa, who was last week fined by authorities for criticising the match officials, did not say much during his post match interview. “You saw what happened. We are not under any pressure. We are only two years into the Premier League so we should not be pressured to win the championship,’’ he said. Yadah gaffer Genesis Mangombe was satisfied with his lads performance. “The boys did very well against a good side that was playing so well. We were also unfortunate to concede an own goal. It’s a point picked on the road so it is of so vital important to us,’’ he said.