The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter AS the senior national netball team takes a short break before they regroup for the final phase of the Netball World Cup qualifiers’ preparations, coach Ropafadzo Mutsauki believes they have covered most of the groundwork. The Spar Zimbabwe-sponsored Gems got into camp early last month to prepare for the qualifiers due to take place this month in Pretoria, South Africa. This was their second camp working towards the qualifiers and they wrapped up with a friendly match against the men’s select side on Sunday at Girls High School in Harare. The Gems are taking a short break before they regroup on Friday for the final phase of the preparations ahead of their departure for South Africa in two weeks’ time. Mutsauki is pleased with how things have gone so far and urged the players not to relax during the few days they will be away from their training camp. “Our camp so far has gone well and I am very happy with the performance and fitness level of the players. “When we return, we will do a fitness test. We are hopeful that they won’t relax during this break. We just wanted them to refresh and we will continue from where we left when we come back. “Our observations from yesterday’s game is we need to keep on working on endurance. I think if we do that we will be good to go. Of course, we cannot be at par with the boys in terms of fitness but we need to push an extra mile. “But we now have several combinations within the squad, which is key when you are competing in a tournament, you need to have options, so we have an advantage. This time around most of the players we have play more than one position and it’s an advantage to us as well. “Technically, I am happy because if you have more players that can play more than one position it’s an advantage,” said Mutsauki. The Gems technical team is currently working with a squad of 17 players after dropping four. Mutsauki said they will finalise the final travelling team when they regroup as they are still working on some logistics. “At the moment we will keep working with all the players that we have. We also want to ensure there is competition within the squad so that we come up with the best team possible. “So when we regroup, we will have a fitness test to assess their level so that we have the final list,” said Mutsauki. He also expressed satisfaction with the progress made by Patricia Mauladi, who joined camp late as the technical team made some adjustments to the squad. “She has responded very well. She is showing a huge improvement and she managed to shed weight, we didn’t expect her to do so well, she is working hard and it makes our job easier. “When we return our focus will be on assessing the combinations, and monitoring their fitness level and working on team defence because that’s an area you need to keep reminding the players,” said Mutsauki. Gems Squad Sharon Bwanali (ZDF Queens), Tafadzwa Matura (ZDF Queens), Claris Kwaramba (Platinum Queens), Priscilla Ndlovu (Platinum Queens), Sharleen Makusha (Platinum Queens), Chipo Shoko (Platinum Queens), Progress Moyo (Platinum Queens), Felisitus Kwangwa (Surrey Storm, England), Lynette Tanhira (Platinum Queens), Nobukhosi Ndhlovu (Goldreef), Ursula Ndlovu (Glow Petroleum) Prudence Sibanda (Glow Petroleum), Yeukai Chamba (Tonadoes, South Africa), Nicole Muzanenamo (Greenfuel), Elizabeth Mushore (Platinum Queens), Patricia Mauladi (ZDF), Beaula Hlungwani (Glow Petroleum). 