The Herald Business Reporter UNITED KINGDOM headquartered international air-based courier and express services provider, Swiss Global, has invested in excess of US$1 million in tracking technology to detect customers’ goods at any given time and location. This follows the delays in the movement of some goods due to Covid-19 in some countries and the recent disturbances in Ukraine. Swiss Global managing director Mr Eddington Munatsi, told The Herald Finance and Business that every customer will get his or her goods unharmed at any given time. “We have invested US$1 million to detect our clients’ goods at any given time. Lately, we suffered a setback but we would like to assure our customers that their goods will come in the shortest possible time. “Going forward, we urge our customers that if they haven’t received their goods, they should get in touch with our offices and they will get instant help,” he said. “When getting in touch, kindly share reference of your goods and we will share the relevant details. “We will make sure each and every customer gets his or her goods and we will either reship or compensate if one hasn’t received the goods for a certain period.” Swiss Global was established in 2008 and specialises in air and sea cargo for commercial companies and individuals. The freight forwarding giant is accredited to British International Freight Association and International Air Transport Association (IATA) with the rights to send anywhere in the world. Swiss Global has branches in Malawi, Zambia, South Africa, Kenya and China with Zimbabwe operations being one of the major operations. The local operation is dubbed as Swiss Global Zimbabwe. The global freight business has of late been facing many challenges that have been delaying movement of goods. Some layers in the sector have attributed the delays to shortages of shipping containers due to Covid-19 that curtailed the movement of cargo and the recent Russia/Ukraine war that has seen millions of containers stuck in the two Eastern Europe nations.