The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter FORMER Mighty Warriors coach Shadreck Mlauzi has said the decline in performance by the senior women’s football side is a manifestation of neglect over the years. The recent achievements by South Africa and Zambia at the just-ended Women’s Africa Cup of Nations, held in Morocco, trigger memories of the progress the Mighty Warriors made at some point and the potential they carried. South Africa were crowned champions in Morocco. They qualified for the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup to be jointly hosted by Australia and New Zealand. Zambia also booked their place at next year’s World Cup when finishing third at the continental football showpiece in Morocco. Zimbabwe are suspended by FIFA from all football activities but the suspension came when the Mighty Warriors had already failed to qualify for the tournament. Speaking to The Herald last week, Mighty Warriors skipper Emmaculate Msipa said while she is happy for Banyana Banyana, it’s painful to realise how much the senior women’s side has slipped back. Mlauzi added his voice, saying lack of support and recognition of the team’s efforts are the major contributors. “There has been so much neglect that has ultimately began to catch up with us. In the past, yes, the girls used to be inspired or motivated by the fact that they wanted to make names for themselves. “But, having then achieved something of great significance in the sporting world, that is qualification for the Rio Olympic Games in 2016, then WAFCON, then at the end of those major qualifications, no thank you… From there on it has been a downward spiral for a long time,” said Mlauzi. Mlauzi was in charge of the Mighty Warriors at the 2016 Olympic Games and at the 2016 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. He emphasised that the major difference has been the support other countries give to their national teams. “Look at the average age of those girls they are not too far a distant from the group, the (likes of) Rudo (Neshamba), Emma (Emmaculate Msipa). Some of them are particularly in that age range. “But because these ones play for a national team or a nation that rewards success, that values and appreciates their skills, that values the sacrifices that these girls put through to raise the national flag high, they play with pride for the national team. “That is something that is now lacking in our team. “That lack of support has culminated in a series of a negative ripple effects that it will take some time now to actually put systems in place so that we then prosper and get back to the glory days.” Mlauzi said the failure to qualify for the 2018 edition of the Africa Cup of Nations as well as the no show by the team for the second leg of the second round Olympic qualifiers against Zambia at the National Sports Stadium in 2019 were some of the indicators that all was not well. “From there on, really it has never been the same. There have been so many pointers to that effect. It’s unfortunate that our leaders took very long to address these perennial problems for the Mighty Warriors. It’s very sad. “So at the end of the day one cannot begrudge the other nations that are doing very well. The likes of Botswana, the likes of Zambia, the likes of South Africa the eventual winners of the WAFCON 2022. “They have done extremely well. A lot of sacrifice, a lot of planning has come through for those nations.  Strategic planning is ultimately key, support from the FA, support from the media. “You look for example South Africa, they have televised league from the country’s number one television broadcaster SABC. So now at the end of the day the mileage that comes with broadcasting of the games develops the sport, the participation increases from all stakeholders, sponsorship as well come on board. “It creates a larger selection base for the national teams,” Mlauzi said. He also pointed out the significant contribution made by having strong structures from the junior level which means the production chain continues when players graduate to the next level.