The Herald Ray Bande in NYANGA FORMER Hillside Golf Club player Maxwell Nyabvure outplayed a field of more than 30 golfers to win the inaugural Montclair Invitational tournament held at the nine hole Clairmont golf course in Nyanga yesterday. The Clairmont golfer, who amassed 37 points on day one of the Individual Stableford on Friday, scooped pole position ahead of Fainah Bungare who settled for second position with a tally of 33. Jane Salimo was third with 21 points. Bungare partnered Chipo Magadzire on day two of the tournament yesterday and the duo snatched the coveted first position with 42 points. Montclair general manager, Brian Nyakutombwa, and Martin Nyaundi were in second position after amassing 39 points while the duo of Langston Govinder and Anwar Wazi were counted out to third with the 39 points. Apart from the amateurs who took to the Clairmont golf course for the two-day event, professional golfers John Sigaba, Elijah Davison and Jessy Nyakatawa also graced the event. The theme of the event was: “Bringing brands together”. Nyakutombwa expressed satisfaction with the high standards of the inaugural edition of the event. “The tournament went on very well and I must say I’m very impressed because this is the first time we are hosting this event. The whole idea being that Montclair Hotel and Casino brought together organisations that it does business with, that it wishes to do business with so that they come together to play golf as well as create networks and conclude deals. Over 30 players came through and as an inaugural edition, it really went on well. The attendance of a few professional golfers, who were here, helped us a lot since they assisted in logistical arrangements as well advising on some elements of the competition. We are looking forward to a bigger and better event next time we will be hosting this event,” Nyakutombwa said. Nyakutombwa thanked corporate partners that helped to make the event a resounding success. They included leading diversified media group – Zimpapers. Through one of its publications, Business Weekly, Zimpapers sponsored some prizes that were won by some of the participants. Business Weekly Editor, Herbert Zharare, said: “We decided, as Business Weekly, that we divert from the norm in journalism where we just report on who is who said what but to actively participate in economic development. We want to revolutionalise the way the media operates. So we have been doing a lot of functions. This Montclair Invitational is one of the many functions we have attended. “We have attended it in a unique way. We want to partner business in development and create that mutual and symbiotic relationship with business hence the decision to give awards for this tournament. Yes, the awards are not very expensive but they will stimulate a good relationship between us and the business community. For example, we gave them accommodation vouchers at Montclair and we have also given the gadgets in the form of tablets that will enable to access our products as Zimpapers,” he said.