The Herald Crime Reporter A Harare gang of housebreakers and a single burglar in Victoria Falls have been arrested on allegations of breaking into a total of 25 houses in separate incidents, stealing cash, electrical appliances and groceries. Police in Southerton, Harare, have broken up a gang, arresting Tatenda Marodza, Itai Tembo, and Richard Jena for a spate of thefts in the Granary and Riddle Ridge areas. The three are facing 17 cases of unlawful entry into premises between March and May this year. The gang would forcibly open locked doors to gain entry into homes and then steal household goods, including electrical appliances. “In one of the cases that occurred in May, the three, acting in connivance with their accomplices, Collen Muvirimi and Witness Chidhuza, proceeded to the complainant’s house where upon arrival they forced open the sliding dining room door to gain entry,” said Detective Assistant Inspector Portia Chinho. “They stole a four-plate gas stove, 19,5kg gas tank, 210 litre deep freezer refrigerator, 32-inch Samsung TV, 5kg gas tank, and a 12 volt car battery and went away unnoticed. “The trio was arrested following receipt of information that they were behind the commission of the crimes. They appeared at Mbare Magistrates Court where they were remanded in custody for trial.” Detective Asst Insp Chinho urged members of the public to continue tightening security at their homes and business premises to avoid falling prey to criminals. In Victoria Falls, the suspect, not part of a gang, Member Mudenda of 7777 Mkhosana Township in Victoria Falls, was arrested by detectives following a tip-off in the area. CID acting spokesperson Detective Assistant Inspector Rachel Muteweri gave details of the arrests. “During the period extending from 18 to 28 July 2022, the lone accused person wreaked havoc causing sleepless nights to Victoria Falls residents,” he said. “He would forcibly open locked doors and in some cases break windows and fish out the property before getting away unnoticed. “The accused person would target electrical appliances, mainly television sets and cellphones, as well as cash and foodstuffs. In one of the incidences that occurred on July 20 the accused person broke into the complainant’s house, and ransacked the whole house before getting away with a television set and laptop, amongst other valuables.” On Thursday last week, detectives then arrested Mudenda following a tip-off and searches were conducted at his house leading to the recovery of cellphones and three television sets, among other items. Mudenda appeared at the Victoria Falls Magistrates Court the next day and was remanded in custody.