The Herald Sports Reporter FORMER Black Rhinos defender Sam Nzanga could be just on the right coaching path after his English lower league football side Grendon Sapphires was named the team of the season. The Zimbabwean has been with the Sunday League team for only a year, having been appointed in August last year. Widely known as “Captain Zed” during his heyday, Nzanga transformed the club and played in three cup finals, winning once. The Northampton-based club had last featured in a cup final in 2009 and Nzanga’s effect has been so remarkable he is now the talk of the town. He has been hailed by the club manager Collin Hodson too. “This man is a football genius, he came in and changed the dynamics and views of the club. I am glad I hired such a talent, he has football brains, you watch his sessions and you do not want to blink. I have never thought this team would be in such a position but this man has made me and the players believe,” said Hodson. “Sam demands energy and commitment, he does not have a friend or family when it comes to the game, it does not matter who you are he will sub you if you don’t keep to the shape that he demands and he has made all the players believe in themselves, this man has made us proud and got us together as one big family. “Sam is also a true friend who is honest with his footballing views, he has no best player, all players are the same to him and treated fairly. With this football genius we will go far. ‘’These are the same players we have had for years struggling and always a mid-table team and these are the same players being named Team of the Season. What a turn-around in a season, I have never heard of this. Three cup finals, champions and two semi-finals in one season and beating a team that has not been beaten in two years not only once but twice, that’s remarkable.’’ Sapphires appeared in three cup finals last year and lost two winning one, they finished with another trophy as the league one Champions and promoted to Championship. On their way to the finals, Sapphires beat a series of clubs as well as Tove FC who had not been beaten in two years. Nzanga and his men humbled them twice in a league match and in a cup semi-final match which Sapphires went on to become winners. Nzanga played as a central defender for Black Rhinos in the 90s partnering the likes of current Cranborne Bullets head coach Nesbert ‘’Yabo’’ Saruchera, the late Pasanduka Pakamisa and Manilo Mutimba. Nzanga’s football career ended when he was at his peak in 1999 when he travelled abroad. Speaking from his base in England after being asked about his career as a player and also as a coach, the former army man said he had no regrets. “I have no regrets, things happen for a reason. I was only 27 when I thought my football career had ended and that is when I travelled to the UK in 1999. I never thought of coaching football at the time and all I thought of was what to do next in terms of educating myself. I never thought I would educate myself as a football coach as I felt football was a closed chapter for me. “I looked at some of the greatest football players Zimbabwe has ever had that have failed to impress as coaches and that did not help with my confidence. I sat down and thought of (former Arsenal manager) Arsene Wenger and how he made it and this is when I thought it is all about the drive, educating and believing in yourself. “I am a big fan of Aserne Wenger and Chris Wilder. I went through all coaching badges I could possibly go for, including disability football, and my aim was to give back to my local community,” said Nzanga. “I was lucky to coach at the Leicester City Academy and then hired by Rushden and Diamonds as their under 18s manager. I had such a good season with Rushden and Diamonds before progressing in my football coaching. Anyone can do this, it is only the drive that is needed, if you don’t try you will never know. I tried and I know that I am a fantastic football coach who needs to keep his head down and learn from others. Everyday is school day, we are all the same and no one is better than the other. I am grateful to be here at Sapphires and I will continue to learn with the team.” He still values the local league in Zimbabwe and rates it highly. “For me, it is still the best because it is the league that gave me the opportunity. I would like to see more business people getting involved and coaches who are abroad taking their time to share experiences with local coaches. Youth leagues must be encouraged like it was back in the days when we would go to watch from the Under-14s to the senior team on the same stadium, same pitch, same day. It was such a joy to go to Rufaro Stadium at 11am to watch the juniors kicking off the day and that was football at its best. I love Zimbabwean football and I am hoping to coach one of the Premier League teams before retiring from football.”