The Herald Tadious Manyepo in MHONDORO-NGEZI Ngezi Platinum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (0) 2 Triangle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    0 INTERIM Ngezi Platinum Stars coach Takesure Chiragwi started his reign on a winning note in this incident-filled Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at Baobab yesterday. Chiragwi was handed the torch after the sacking of former Warriors captain and ex-Manchester City striker Benjani Mwaruwari last week. Ariel Makopa and substitute Tendai Matindife got the goals for the platinum miners. There was a feel of the old Ngezi Platinum Stars who played with much composure and purpose throughout the afternoon. But the match endured a 13-minute stoppage as Triangle protested Ngezi’s opening goal, scored by Makopa, which the Lowveld side argued didn’t cross the line, in the 79th minute. Qadr Amini, who had been on the pitch for just eight minutes, swung a corner which Makopa headed home but Triangle defender Tinashe Kabanda dragged the ball just when it had crossed the line. As shown on television review, first assistant Polite Dube signalled for a goal, igniting wild protests from the Triangle bench. Their players mobbed referee Tembinkosi Sibanda prompting police details to enter the pitch to protect him and his assistants. In the heat of the moment, Tapera bolted out of the pitch and went straight to ZTN Prime monitor where staffer Howard Musonza was doing commentary from. Tapera requisited to be shown a replay of the incident before going back to instruct his players to continue. It was indeed a close call but Dube issued a correct signal as the whole of the ball had crossed the line. “I cannot comment on that incident, what I can only say is we lost 2-0 to Ngezi Platinum Stars who played better than us in the second half,” said Tapera. “It was a good game with both set of players showing a good fighting spirit. “I am very impressed with how my charges played, we will have to go back to the drawing board and see how we recover from this defeat.” His Ngezi Platinum counterpart Chiragwi paid tribute to his former boss Mwaruwari. “I am very happy we managed to win this match at home. We didn’t change anything, this is the same thing we were doing with coach Benjani Mwaruwari in charge. “I guess we were still going to win with him in charge because the phase we were in is now behind us,” said Chiragwi. “I would like to congratulate my players for the fighting spirit they put on. It was a very difficult match but this is what we should be doing when we are playing at home. “I would like to salute these players for their resoluteness.” Chiragwi reverted back to a 4-4-2 formation, roping in Tapiwa Sibanda at right-back and moving Makopa to partner Polite Moyo at the heart of defence while Kudzi Chigwida was dropped to the bench. Denver Mukamba played in his usual Number 10 role and threatened the Triangle reaguard all afternoon with his trickery. Ngezi bossed with both the ball and territory and should have found the opener when Mukamba unleashed a grasscutter that was parried for a corner by Geofrey Chitsumba, in goals for the visitors, five minutes into the game. Mukamba also saw his volley saved by Chitsumba 20 minutes later. Triangle though came back into the match with Emmaculate Mawuna hitting the upright moments before the break. The second half was more or less the same as the first. And once Ngezi Platinum opened their account, Triangle slid into panic and as they got desperate to level the scores, Amini won possession and raced along the right flank before curling a perfect cross that was headed home by Matindife. Teams Ngezi Platinum: Nelson Chadya, Tapiwa Sibanda, Malvern Kwinjo, Ariel Makopa, Polite Moyo, Carlos Mavhurume, Leslie Kashitigu, Wayne Makuva(Tendai Matindife 65th min), Denver Mukamba (Marvellous Mukumba 90+6), Bruno Mtigo (Qadr Amini 71st min), Delic Murimba Triangle: Geofrey Chitsumba, Jameson Mukombwe, Tawanda Musariri, Tawanda Chisi, Kelvin Gwao, Tinashe Kabanda, Enock Karembo, Russel Madamombe (Misheck Ngwenya 65th min), Emmaculate Mauna (Mathew Hlabati 65th min) Donald Ngoma, Gerald Bero.