The Herald Crime Reporter TWO men lost over US$8 000 to three machete wielding armed robbers who emerged from a bushy area in Karoi and pushed the pair from a motorcycle they were riding. National police spokesperson, Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi, said on Sunday at around 4pm in Karoi, three armed robbers got away with US$8 010 and a cellphone after threatening two victims. “The ZRP is investigating a robbery case which occurred at Kasimure Village, Karoi on March 13, 2022 at around 1600 hours, where two complainants who were riding on a motor cycle lost cash amounting to US$8 010 and an Itel cellphone to three unknown suspects. “The suspects, who were armed with knives and a machete emerged from a bush and pushed the moving motorcycle resulting in the rider losing control of the cycle and fell down. They then threatened the complainants with knives and stole the cash,” he said. No arrests have been made so far. There has been a slight increase in cases in which criminals have been targeting individuals, businesspeople and business premises with large amounts of money countrywide. Police are also investigating a robbery case in which four people were robbed of US$250 cash, four cellphones and other valuables worth US$1 210, after they had boarded a blue Nissan Sylphy vehicle which had two robbers, at the Harare Show grounds on Sunday at around 3:45pm. “The vehicle was destined for Gweru and along the way at the 36 km peg along the Harare-Bulawayo Road, the driver diverted the route and turned left into a dust road where they threatened the complainants with an unidentified pistol and stole the valuables before they dumped the complainants and sped off towards Harare,” Asst Comm Nyathi said. Seven people lost over US$17 000 cash, cars and property worth over US$9 000 and R248 000 to armed robbers who ambushed them in separate incidents countrywide since last week. Some of the property and cars have since been recovered. In Chitungwiza, police are investigating a robbery incident, which occurred at a house in Zengeza last Thursday at around 2.15am where two robbers broke into the house before holding hostage three people. The robbers stole US$13 500 cash and various other property all valued at US$15 805.