The Herald LONDON. —Arsenal returned to the Premier League top four after goals from Thomas Partey and Alexandre Lacazette earned them a 2-0 win at home to Leicester City yesterday. The win moves the Gunners a point ahead of Manchester United but crucially Mikel Arteta’s side have three games in hand on their rivals for the final Champions League slot. Partey put Arsenal ahead in the 11th minute with a simple, glancing near-post header from a Gabriel Martinelli corner which was poorly defended by the Foxes. Arsenal’s second came after Kasper Schmeichel parried out a Martin Odegaard free kick and Partey’s goal-bound header was cleared off the line by Luke Thomas. But the video replay showed that Leicester defender Caglar Soyuncu had reached out a hand towards Partey’s header and after reviewing the monitor referee Anthony Taylor pointed to the spot and Lacazette drilled home the spot-kick. However, there was to be no way back for Brendan Rodgers’s side, who remain 12th in the table. Seeking to end a five-year absence from Europe’s elite club competition, Arsenal ensured they remain in pole position in the race to qualify with a ninth win in 11 league games. With three games in hand over fifth-placed United from which to further strengthen their position, Mikel Arteta’s men — unlike their immediate rivals — have achieved consistency in both performances and results to emerge as favourites for fourth. The opening goal was a familiar tale for Leicester, who have now conceded a league-high 15 goals from set-pieces — excluding penalties — after Partey’s run to the near post went ignored. Arsenal had amassed six shots before Leicester, sorely missing injured talisman Jamie Vardy, managed their first attempt after 24 minutes. But, just as he was in October’s reverse fixture, which Arsenal also won 2-0, the inspired Ramsdale was up to the task when the Foxes eventually gained a foothold in the contest. Martinelli and Bukayo Saka impressed in attack for Arsenal, while Partey was influential in midfield, but it was the slick Martin Odegaard who stood out as he created five big chances for his team-mates in the first half alone. Rodgers’ side must quickly dust themselves down as focus switches to securing a place in the last eight of the Europa Conference League, as they take a 2-0 lead into their second leg against Rennes on Thursday. For Arsenal, a meeting with title-chasing Liverpool on Wednesday will provide an acid test of their progress since a 4-0 loss at Anfield earlier this season. — BBC Sport