The Herald Crime Reporter A Warren Park man believed to be mentally ill struck and killed his 69-year-old wife with an iron bar following an altercation while another man has gone into hiding after he allegedly killed his 103-year-old grandmother in Kanyemba, Mbire. The man from Kanyemba is believed to be mentally challenged also. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi confirmed the incidents and said investigations were in progress. “On March 24, 2022, police in Harare arrested a suspected mentally challenged man aged 77 in connection with a case of murder where he allegedly killed his wife aged 69 in Warren Park. The suspect allegedly struck the victim with an iron bar severally on the head following an altercation,” he said. The suspect, Tinos Zvavanhu Mposhi, has since appeared in court and was remanded in custody. Mposhi, who is a suspected mental patient struck his wife Rosemary Mposhi with an iron bar after an argument before he handed himself over to the police. His wife’s body was found lying in pool of blood when police attended the scene. Meanwhile, police in Kanyemba are investigating a case of murder that occurred at Mariga Village, Chief Chipato on March 26 where a suspected mentally challenged suspect aged 26 fatally assaulted his grandmother aged 103. “The suspect fled to an unknown destination after committing the offence. In another case, on March 26, 2022, police in Zhombe recorded a murder case when Evans Mamvura aged 21 fatally attacked Melusi Moyo aged 21 with a knife at Mbama Village, Chief Ntabeni, Zhombe after a misunderstanding over a girlfriend. Police are yet to locate the suspect,” Asst Comm Nyathi said. In Chegutu, police are investigating a suspected case of murder which occurred at Biri River where a 43-year-old man was found trapped by his nets in the water. Police noted the victim’s bicycle, tyre tube and clothes were hipped outside the water. In Dema, police are looking for Edwin Kaserera (35) of Zhakata Village, Seke in connection with a case of murder which occurred last week in Seke. The suspect fatally assaulted the Bernard Kaserera (33) with an iron bar several times on the head and hips after a misunderstanding over the sharing of proceeds from a piece job. In Mwenezi, police have arrested Isheunopa Mavhetuke (48) for the murder of Misheck Chifuruvadze (47) at Toringa Village, Chief Maranda, Mwenezi. The suspect fatally struck the victim with a wooden stick several times on the head. In another case, police in West Nicholson are looking for Blessed Dube, a male adult, for fatally stabbing Velile Oscar Mkwebu (41) on the chest with a knife on March 21 at Geelong 2 Mine.