The Herald LONDON. — Two English Premier League football clubs — Aston Villa and Newcastle — have joined the likes of Real Madrid, Paris Saint-Germain and Juventus in expressing interest in signing Paul Pogba from Manchester United. Pogba has largely flattered to deceive during his second spell at Old Trafford and is widely expected to leave the Premier League giants this summer. Earlier this week, the World Cup winner gave the clearest indication yet that he will leave Manchester United at the end of the season by suggesting he has wasted five years of his career. “The last five seasons have not satisfied me — really not at all,’’ Pogba said in an eyebrow-raising interview with La Figaro. “This year it is dead, we won’t win anything. Whether it is with Manchester United or at another club, I want to win trophies.’’ Spanish champions-elect Real Madrid, French giants Paris Saint-Germain and Italian heavyweights Juventus are believed to be the three favourites to secure the 29-year-old’s signature. But The Sun say English Premier League clubs Newcastle United and Aston Villa are also monitoring Pogba’s situation at Old Trafford and have made contact with his representatives over a possible move. Newcastle are now one of the richest clubs in the world following their Saudi Arabia-backed takeover in November and have pulled clear of the relegation zone since Eddie Howe replaced Steve Bruce as manager. Villa, meanwhile, are another club not short of cash and will be looking to push on in the next few years under former Liverpool and England midfielder Steven Gerrard. Pogba has endured another mixed season at Old Trafford, with the club struggling to secure a top-four finish in the Premier League and crashing out of the Champions League. Last week, former England midfielder Danny Murphy claimed Pogba was one of two players United needed to sell ‘’for the good of the team’’. “Something radical needs to change at Manchester United even if it means important players like Cristiano Ronaldo being sold,’’ Murphy told the Daily Mail. “You have to be careful dealing with superstars on big contracts, it’s better to find other takers before you fall out with them. “But the bigger picture is that United have gone five years without a trophy and need to back a top manager who is there for the long haul, whether it be Thomas Tuchel, Mauricio Pochettino or someone else. “Those guys will want to do things their own way and a clear-out makes sense, headed by Paul Pogba and Ronaldo.’’ — Metro.