The Herald YAOUNDE. — The Cameroonian Football Federation has announced the appointment of former Cameroon captain Rigobert Song as the new coach of the men’s senior national team on the orders of the country’s President Paul Biya, the sports minister said on Monday. Song replaces Antonio Conceicao as the coach of the Indomitable Lions after the Portuguese coach took the Cameroonians to a third-place finish at the recently concluded 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON). The appointment was confirmed by Cameroon’s Minister of Sports and Physical Education Narcisse Mouelle Kombi on Monday, February 28, through an official press statement. The statement said Cameroon needed “a new breath”. The statement read: “The Minister of Sports and Physical Education has the honor to inform the public that, on Very High Instructions from the President of the Republic, passed on by correspondence No 232/CR/SG/PR of February 28, 2022, the coach of the national men’s football team, Mr. Antonio CONCEICAO, and the technical staff of the Indomitable Lions are replaced by the following officials: “National Coach: Mr. SONG Rigobert; “Assistant National Coach: Mr. MIGNE Sebastien; “The Cameroonian Football Federation (FECAFOOT) is invited to take the necessary measures, as far as it is concerned, for a harmonious and rapid implementation of these Very High Directives, in order to allow the Indomitable Lions to face, in the best conditions possible, important future sporting events.” Song is regarded as a legend of the Indomitable Lions, being the most capped Cameroonian player (137 appearances) and also captained the team to two AFCON titles in 2000 and 2002. The 45-year-old former defender had a brief stint as caretaker coach of the senior national team in early 2018 before he was appointed as the head coach of Cameroon’s Under-23 men’s team in October 2018, a position he held till his latest appointment. Song is the country’s most capped player, making 137 appearances for the Indomitable Lions. The appointment would be unusual because FIFA rules require any member association to be independent and avoid any form of political interference. Conceicao had led Cameroon to World Cup qualifying play-offs and they will play Algeria in a two-legged tie this month (March) for a place at Qatar 2022. Song, who also played for West Ham in England and had spells in France, Italy, Germany and Turkey during his playing career, also featured at four World Cups and won the 2000 and 2002 Africa Cup of Nations titles. He was most recently the coach of the Cameroon Under-23 side. Cameroon face 2019 African champions Algeria in a two-legged play-off for a place at the World Cup in Qatar later this year on March 25 and 29. Song, who played in England, France, Italy, Germany and Turkey during his club career, is the Indomitable Lions’ all-time leading appearance maker with 137. In 2016 Song suffered a “cerebral haemorrhage” and had to be evacuated to France for treatment. Song will be assisted by the former Congo-Brazzaville, Kenya and Equatorial Guinea coach Sebastien Migne. The Frenchman, whose most recent job was at South African club Marumo Gallants, led Kenya to the 2019 African Cup of Nations finals in Egypt. The technical team also includes for internationals Souleymanou Haminou as goalkeepers’ coach and Raymond Kalla as team manager. FIFA frowns on government interference in football but the appointment of coaches — especially across Africa — is often a bit of a grey area since the majority of associations rely on the government to pay at least part, if not all, of the salaries for technical teams. The governing bodies usually recruit the coaches but need the ministry’s approval for the contracts offered, and often to cover the compensation for anyone who is sacked before the end of their deal. — AFP.