The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — A quick glance at Khama Billiat’s career record in the South African Premiership football matches against Orlando Pirates shows the dynamic Zimbabwean midfielder enjoys duelling with the Buccaneers. Billiat has had a hand in 16 goals, scoring 7 and making 9 assists against the Sea Robbers. While he has always put up a good showing against them, winning 10 of his previous 17 league encounters when up against Pirates, the Zimbabwean international is playing down these strong numbers ahead of tomorrow’s showdown with Chiefs’ arch- rivals. “It is a big game, but I always want to play the game — and not the occasion — and not get carried away. We are old enough to not let little things affect the outcome of the game. We want to be professional about the game. We want to enjoy it and win it,” was Billiat’s curt reply when asked of his match-winning performances down the years against Pirates. Billiat was Chiefs’ late match winner in their last league game against Baroka last Saturday and he is all focused on the preparation ahead of the big Soweto Derby. “I feel we can only do well if we concentrate on our game. If we follow the instructions and go into the game with the correct state of mind, how we train and how the week goes will also determine how well we do,” Billiat said maturely. Billiat has a lot to be positive about and he has had an industrious season for Amakhosi, which he has put that down to a number of factors. “I am grateful. Injuries have not been as serious as in previous seasons. Most importantly I am happy to contribute. We have a great understanding amongst each other and this is helping me to grow as a player,” says Billiat. He is targeting further improvements as the season enters its final stages, but despite turning up with many goals and assists his main objective remains being a team player. “It’s not just about me scoring, its more about contributing. I want to get the tactics from the coach and positively contribute. Scoring goals is a confidence booster. It’s about growing your game and to show professionalism by sticking to the plan,” says Billiat. While he has played down his contributions this term, he concluded his conversation with www.kaizerchiefs.com saying that “without winning games, confidence drops, right now I am in a happy space, I want to play more and like I said contribute as much as I can.” In 16 league appearances this season Billiat has had a hand in 12 goals for Chiefs, making 6 assists and scoring six goals. In terms of goal contributions this is his best campaign as a Chiefs player since joining the club in 2018-19. He made an assist when Chiefs defeated Pirates 2-1 earlier in the season, setting up Keagan Dolly for Chiefs opening goal in that encounter. In his own words, he will be looking to contribute with a goal or an assist once more this weekend. Meanwhile, Billiat is closing in on a huge goalscoring milestone following his late strike against Baroka last Saturday. Billiat scored the only goal of the game as Chiefs recorded a 1-0 victory which saw them move up the ladder on the log standings. This was Billiat’s 96th top-flight goal since his arrival in South Africa from Zimbabwe’s CAPS United over a decade ago. There are only five players in front of Billiat in the all-time PSL goalscorers, and they are Siyabonga Nomvethe, Daniel Mudau, Mabhuti Khenyeza, Manuel “Tico-Tico’’ Bucuane and Collins Mbesuma. Four of them – Nomvethe, Mudau, Khenyeza and Tico-Tico — have all retired from professional football. Mbesuma (38) is still going strong although he’s currently plying his trade in the GladAfrica Championship with Pretoria Callies. Billiat scored the 96 goals with three different clubs that he has so far played for in South Africa — Ajax Cape Town, Mamelodi Sundowns and Kaizer Chiefs. The 31-year-old netted 47 of his 96 goals at Sundowns, and this was after he had netted 23 times for Ajax Cape Town. At Chiefs, Billiat has found the back of the net on 26 different occasions — meaning needs four more goals to hit the 100-goal mark. – Kaizerchiefs.com