The Herald BIRMINGHAM. — Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta praised the “character, courage and quality” of his team as they strengthened their grip on fourth place in the English Premier League football championship race with a narrow 1-0 victory at Aston Villa on Saturday. Bukayo Saka was the stand-out player as the Gunners secured a sixth win from seven games to move four points clear of fifth-placed Manchester United with a game in hand. The England international scored the only goal in the first half with a low drive from the edge of the area after Villa failed to properly clear a cross into the box. “You can see the connection they have. It is phenomenal to watch,” Arteta told BT Sport. “If you want to be a top team, you have to win home and away. We are doing that consistently and we have to continue. We really want (to finish in the top four) and we are going to give it a go.” Arteta also said he was ‘’so pleased’’ for Bernd Leno after the goalkeeper made a rare English Premier League appearance for Arsenal in their narrow win over Aston Villa on Saturday. Aaron Ramsdale travelled with the Gunners to Villa Park, but wasn’t selected in the matchday squad due to a hip injury which is set to keep him out for a few weeks. Ramsdale has established himself as Arteta’s No.1 goalkeeper this season, taking over from Leno early on in the campaign. Leno started the first three games of the season — defeats to Brentford, Chelsea and Manchester City —  but was replaced by the £30 million summer signing afterwards. The 30-year-old’s appearances have been restricted to Cup competitions since then, but he was chosen to stand in for Ramsdale against Villa. Leno had a relatively quiet afternoon, with a save from Philippe Coutinho’s free-kick — Villa’s only shot on target — coming in the final moments of the game. After the vital victory for the Gunners in the race for the top four, Arteta mentioned how pleased he was for Leno. ‘’So pleased for Bernd, he’s been through a tough time not playing the minutes that he’s used to in his career,’’ Arteta told BT Sport. Speaking to Arsenal media, Arteta added on Leno: ‘’He had control, emotionally he was prepared and I’m really happy for him. ‘’Obviously it’s been a tough few months for him because he’s always played in his career, but he has stayed there, Aaron (Ramsdale) has been here to support him and it’s great to see those things. ‘’His reaction has been very good, accepting the role, it’s very difficult not accepting it, but relaxing about it, just trying to push and improve in every area and this is what we want from our players.’’ Meanwhile, Arsenal legend Ian Wright has urged Arsenal’s owners to bring in a few new signings to improve the team even further after their win over Aston Villa, while he also praised Leno’s contribution. The north Londoners bounced back from their defeat to Liverpool with an important 1-0 victory away to Aston Villa on Saturday — the first time they have won five away games in a row in seven years — with Bukayo Saka netting the only goal of the game. Wright was full of praise for Arsenal’s display, which has strengthened their top-four hopes, and now feels the onus is on the club’s hierarchy to invest even further in the summer, while he says the north Londoners have delivered some humble pie to their critics. — BBC Sport