The Herald Youth Interactive Writer A 10-year old Macheke boy residing at Damview Park, Onald Gwiriri has broken new ground by becoming the youngest ever NAMA award winner at the 20th edition of the National Art Merit Awards held last weekend at Rainbow Towers. Onald’s book “The Cursing Tortoise” won the NAMA Outstanding Children’s Book award. The boy is a Grade 5 learner at Macheke Government Primary School. He wrote the story when he was eight years old. Asked about how he felt after winning the award, the young boy said, “I am quite excited to have won this award, and I will keep on writing. I wish to give a copy of my book to the President one day.” Onald wished to have a tablet for writing and reading books. The boy’s mother said that she was very happy that her son won the award. She did not expect Onald to win considering his age. “I wish him success in future as he continues to write more books.” Onald’s father said that he was fascinated by his son’s achievement. He said that the whole thing started as a storytelling family fun activity. During family time, the boy narrates fictitious stories, and the parents encourage him to write them down. Onald likes animals and watching the National Geographic channel on television. Mr Gwiriri supported Onald to publish the book using the Amai Miriam Bamhare’s ‘catch them young’ philosophy. Mai Bamhare was once the director of the Zimbabwe Book Development Council (ZBDC) who championed reading stories even to unborn babies. “I am quite grateful to God and NAMA for affording my child this prestigious award. The award ceremony taught me a lesson that when a child does well, he or she becomes a nation’s child. “The attention given to Onald was overwhelming. I shed tears of joy seeing my child being lifted up and pampered by celebrities, some pausing for selfies with him. In my lifetime, I have never had such attention. “Onald is a shy boy, but this NAMA event boosted his confidence. I pray that every talented Zimbabwean child be given an opportunity and exposure to show case his excellency and realise a dream,” Mr Gwiriri said. The director of the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe (NAC), Mr Nicholas Moyo said, “It’s very exciting to see one of the youngest writers in the country being nominated and then walking away with the coveted award. “The book that Onald wrote was very good. When you read it, the quality of the writing is far more than a 10-year-old’s scope, but it’s a child writing, you can actually tell that it’s a child who was writing. It’s not some book which has been written by an older person and given to a child. No. It’s a child’s writing. You can tell the way how the story unveils, the way how he expresses his horizon of thinking. “As NAMA, we are very happy to be associated with such a raw product. NAMA awards excellence.” Equally excited was Mr PS Kadzviti, the head of Macheke Government Primary School where Onald is a learner. He said; “I am highly impressed with Onald Gwiriri’s performance and also thankful to the parents and the school which nurtured the talent. He is in fact our own Charles Mungoshi or Dambudzo Marechera. He should aim higher than the award and inspire his schoolmates. The sky is the limit. He must keep the fire burning.” Mr Aleck Kaposa, the book’s editor and publisher at Essential Books Publishing Company, a writer of note and multiple-time NAMA nominee, said he was very pleased with Onald’s achievement and encouraged him to keep reading widely and writing more. He said, “We are indeed proud to have published the little book which has literally taken the literary circles of this country by storm. “We wish the book to go into the hands of every Zimbabwean child as a way to promote and enhance reading and creative writing among children.” The general public shared Onald’s achievement. Some parents stated that they were going to use his award as a platform to encourage their own children to aim higher. The boy has set a bench mark for children of Zimbabwe to also walk on a red carpet and rub shoulders with celebrities. An admirer encouraged Onald’s publisher to submit his book for international competitions so as to raise the Zimbabwean flag high. Onald’s contacts are 0773644069 (Gwiriri) 0733804947 (Kaposa) or e-mail oscar.gwiriri@gmail.com.