The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Orlando Pirates co-coach Fadlu Davids has asked referees in charge of today’s Soweto Derby to be cautious when dealing with Kaizer Chiefs’ Zimbabwean attacker Khama Billiat. The two fierce South African Premiership football rivals are set to meet at Orlando Stadium at 3.30pm today, with the hosts keen on avenging the 2-1 loss suffered in the last meeting. In that particular game, that was played at FNB Stadium on November 6, Keagan Dolly opened the scoring in the 49th minute before Linda Mntambo levelled with three minutes to go. However, a penalty to the hosts in the added minutes was converted by Dolly to ensure Amakhosi won the bragging rights. The Buccaneers tactician has now commented on the issue, further questioning why their opponents get more penalties as opposed to his team. “In the previous derby, we conceded and lost with that penalty. Yeah, you can go back to how many penalties Kaizer Chiefs have had in the derby. I hope we can be clear in relation to penalty decisions,” Davids said as quoted by Daily Sun. “You know Billiat, a small touch or any contact in the box and he is already diving in the Olympic pool. “I hope the referees are clear and know these things. We take the positives from the last derby, conceding in the last minute.” Billiat has an outstanding overall record against Orlando Pirates in his 11 years in the South African PSL. In a derby that both teams need to win badly to keep their supporters happy, Billiat is a potential match-winner for Amakhosi. In his more than decade long stay in the PSL, Billiat has scored seven goals and assisted with 10, for a total of 17 goal involvements in 17 matches. The only teams he has been more prolific against are SuperSport United (10 goals, 8 assists, 28 games) and Free State Stars (10 goals, 3 assists, 18 games). The problem though for Chiefs fans, is that most of Billiat’s goals against the Sea Robbers have come in the colours of Ajax and Sundowns. Playing for the Glamour Boys, the 31-year-old has registered just one goal and two assists, from 7 fixtures. The single goal was scored back in October 2018, a header from a Godfrey Walusimbi cross in a 2-1 defeat in front of a full house at the FNB Stadium. Amakhosi fans and no doubt the player himself, will feel he’s due a goal against the black and white side of the Soweto divide. And in that respect, the derby comes at a great time for Billiat, who is having his best ever season for Chiefs in terms of league goals, including an injury-time winner against Baroka last Saturday. Heading into the game, Billiat has four goals in his last six appearances, as good a run as he’s had with the club. In total this season he’s netted six league goals and one in the cup and added six assists. Not mind-blowing, especially by his own standards, but better that the last two campaigns.— Goal.com