The Herald AFTER months of preparations behind the scenes ahead of next month’s Africa Cup in Uganda, the Zimbabwe rugby sevens side — the Cheetahs — will have an opportunity to learn and test themselves against quality opposition during their training camp in South Africa this week. A squad of 15 players and three technical officials left the country on Sunday for the training camp at the world-class Stellenbosch Academy of Sport in South Africa’s Western Cape province. The camp forms an important part of the Zimbabwe rugby sevens side’s goal of qualifying for the Rugby World Cup Sevens 2022, to be hosted in Cape Town in September and ultimately becoming a core team on the HSBC World Rugby Sevens Series circuit in the next four years. The Cheetahs will need to finish among the top three teams from the Rugby Africa Men’s Sevens, scheduled for Kampala, Uganda during the weekend of April 23 and 24 to qualify to the Sevens Rugby World Cup. To ensure that the team is adequately prepared the Cheetahs technical department has lined up a number of activities alongside the Stellenbosch Academy of Sport (SAS) Rugby Sevens Academy’s high-performance programme, which is renowned for developing world class players. Cheetahs assistant coach, Ricky Chirengende, who will be leading the team on the week-long camp in the absence of head coach, Graham Kaulback, believes the tour will provide the squad with the ideal conditions to reach their full potential. “It’s an opportunity for us to test the systems we have been working on for few months now, against good quality opposition,” Chirengende said in an indepth interview ZimSportLive. “We will use this trip also bond as group while upskilling the academy. It’s a young academy both coaching and playing wise with lots of potential and capacity to grow and this is a huge development opportunity. He added: “Our objectives are to develop local talent and build depth against quality opposition, learn lessons pre–Africa Cup, not at Africa Cup, train, eat, sleep rugby in a professional High-Performance environment for a week with little distraction and from South Africa and SAS to implement their programmes at home.” Chirengende, who played for the University of Kwazulu Natal (UKZN) and now coaches at Maritzburg College in South Africa. He also had a stint Zimbabwe Under-18 Sevens rugby team four years ago. Together with the head coach Kaulback, a former Cheetahs player, they have been working regularly with a group of locally-based players since late last year after a decision by Zimbabwe Rugby Union (ZRU) to have a high-performance rugby sevens academy at home. “It’s been great being able to work with the guys twice a week and have them under a good strength and conditioning program. Having the guys locally based allows the group to know each other intimately and for us as coaches to build layers of understanding. The buy-in and ownership of the Cheetahs as a brand has also improved and there is more accountability from the academy because we are building together, as we recognize this as year one of a four-year comprehensive Cheetahs plan,” he said. While players from the academy are expected to form the core of the Cheetahs squad, Chirengende emphasised that the door remains open for other players based in different countries around the world. Cheetahs Squad Kudzai Mashawi (captain), Godfrey Magaramombe, Vuyani Dlomo, Tamuka Pamire, Munopa Muneta, Kuda Nyamakura, Jerry Jaravaza, Kuda Chiwanza, Munesu Muneta, Ryan Musumhi, Brandon Boshi, Nigel Tinarwo, Tadius Dzandiwandira, Keegan Cooke, Prince Ncube Coach: Ricky Chirengende Team manager: Tafadzwa Mhende Physiotherapist: Margaret Gibson — ZimSportLive