The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter DYNAMOS goalkeepers’ coach Gift ‘’Umbro’’ Muzadzi says the Glamour Boys have a good history of nurturing national team goalkeepers and has challenged the team’s current number one Taimon Mvula to rise and establish his name. Muzadzi believes DeMbare, who host Tenax in a Castle Lager Premiership football match at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow, have a safe pair of hands in Mvula. The former Hwange goalkeeper joined the Glamour Boys two years ago and is tipped to play a key role in DeMbare’s renewed quest for honours. Mvula saved a crucial penalty in last week’s 2-0 triumph over Bulawayo Chiefs away at Barbourfields. Muzadzi said Mvula should emulate his DeMbare predecessors that wore the Warriors jersey with distinction such as the legendary Japhet “Shortcat” M’parutsa, Leon Ntawantawa, Peter ‘’Chops’’ Fanuel and Muzadzi himself, who played for Dynamos during one of their most successful periods in the late 1990s and reached the CAF Champions League final. Throughout the generations, DeMbare have continued to provide national team goalkeepers that also included Ernest Chirambadare, Obey Murefu, George Chigova, Washington Arubi and Tatenda Mkuruva. Of late, the Glamour Boys have been failing to contribute even a single player into the Warriors squad. Mvula got his first national team call-up a few months after his arrival at DeMbare in the provisional squad for the CHAN tournament in December 2020 and was also in the enlarged squad for the 2021 AFCON                        finals. But on both occasions, the 28-year-old could not make the final shortlist and remains uncapped at national team level. “I have been working with Taimon since last year and I have been telling him that Dynamos is known for producing national team goalkeepers. “I think he took the advice to heart. From my point of view, I think he is one of the best goalkeepers we have in the country and if he keeps a cool head and continues working hard, he will go far,” said Muzadzi. DeMbare have met with mixed fortunes since the start of the season after winning three, drawing one and losing two games in the opening six assignments. Defender Emmanuel Jalai will miss the game against Tenax tomorrow because of a groin injury. Big Nigerian striker, Alex Orotomal, whose registration was completed on the eve of the trip to Bulawayo Chiefs, might miss the opportunity to play his second game for the giants because of a pulled muscle. “I think our preparations were going very well and we are ready for the game on Sunday although we have some players who are injured,” said Muzadzi. “Jalai is out with a groin injury. Then, Orotomal is also having a problem with his muscle but we will see after we have done our fitness tests. “But as for Jalai, I think for this game, he is out. It’s a big blow because when the team is playing well, you wouldn’t want to lose anyone. It’s like a machine which does not want to be disturbed. At the same time, we have other players to replace him and do the job as well,” said Muzadzi. The former DeMbare and national team goalkeeper is, however, worried more by his team’s conversion, which he hopes will improve in the coming games. Dynamos have scored four goals in six games. They scored more than once in a game for the first time last week when they beat Bulawayo Chiefs 2-0. “Goals were difficult to come by. Even during the Chibuku Super Cup and the league games that we have played, I think in 90 percent of our games we have been scoring not more than one goal. “But we managed to come out with a very positive result in Bulawayo where we scored two goals away from home. I think it was a big boost for the boys. “We have been crying out for goals and they came at the right time when many people had thought we would not get a result in Bulawayo,” said Muzadzi. DeMbare, however, should not expect an easy outing against Tenax, who frustrated giants Highlanders to a goalless draw in their last match at Sakubva. The Shadreck Mugurasave-coached side have not lost a game in their last three outings, having drawn with Bulawayo Chiefs and beating Bulawayo City 2-0. Castle Lager Premiership Fixtures Today: ZPC Kariba v Bulawayo Chiefs (Nyamhunga), Harare City v Chicken Inn (National Sports Stadium), Black Rhinos v FC Platinum (Sakubva), Ngezi Platinum Stars v Cranborne Bullets (Baobab), Bulawayo City v CAPS United (Barbourfields). Tomorrow: Whawha v Yadah (Ascot), Manica Diamonds v Triangle (Sakubva), Dynamos v Tenax (National Sports Stadium), Highlanders v Herentals (Barbourfields).