The Herald JOHANNESBURG.  — Egypt coach Carlos Queiroz says his team “will defend with 16 players” when they protect a 1-0 lead over Senegal today in the second leg of an African World Cup football playoff. “What I mean by 16 players is that each one must make the effort of two players, not just one player,” said the Mozambique-born former Real Madrid manager and twice Manchester United assistant manager. “We deservedly won the first leg against the best team in Africa and now we are going to Senegal to fight for every metre, every loose ball. Every Egyptian must double his efforts.” A playoff that pits Liverpool stars Mohamed Salah of Egypt and Sadio Mane of Senegal against each other is a repeat of the recent African Cup of Nations final, which Senegal won on penalties after a 0-0 draw. Senegal coach Aliou Cisse says he does not want to see supporters wearing suits in the recently completed Stade du Senegal near Dakar when they confront Egypt today. “We need more fanaticism when it comes to supporting our national team, like they do in Egypt and other north African countries,” he says. “Those who wear suits to football matches must give their tickets to Senegalese supporters who wear football jerseys. We want to see only green, yellow and red (national flag colours) in the stands.” The outcome could hinge on Egypt snatching an ‘‘away’’ goal — if they do Senegal will face the mammoth task of scoring at least three times to qualify. Meanwhile, new Ghana coach Otto Addo is optimistic that the Black Stars can reach the World Cup finals despite being held 0-0 at home by Nigeria in the first leg. “The pressure is off us and on them,” he believes. “It was crucial that we did not conceded at home and any score draw in the return match takes us through. “Our players recovered superbly from a terrible Cup of Nations campaign in January, matched Nigeria throughout the 90 minutes and created more scoring chances.” Star Nigeria forward Victor Osimhen admits the pressure is on the Super Eagles, saying “this match is about much more than football — the nation is relying on us to triumph”.  Today also see Algeria tackling Cameroon in another World Cup playoff tie. Cameroon coach Rigobert Song, who succeeded sacked Portuguese Toni Conceicao after the Cup of Nations hosts came third last month, says star forward Vincent Aboubakar should be fit to face Algeria. The captain has been battling a heel problem and was taken off at half-time of the first leg in Douala, which Cameroon lost 1-0 with Islam Slimani nodding the match-winner off a late first-half free-kick. “We are sure Vincent will be available,” said Song, hoping the skipper, and fellow attackers Eric Maxim Choupo-Moting and Karl Toko Ekambi, can turn the tables. It is a tall order as the match is set for Blida, 50 kilometres southwest of Algiers, and the Stade Mustapha Tchaker is called the “slaughterhouse” because Algeria regularly win handsomely there. Elsewhere today, Morocco have a tricky tie against DR Congo at home. “Egypt rely heavily on Salah, Senegal on Mane and Algeria on (Riyad) Mahrez,” says Morocco coach Vahid Halilhodzic, “but Morocco rely on 11 players.” The Bosnian coach was walking a tightrope by refusing to choose Chelsea winger Hakim Ziyech and Ajax Amsterdam full-back Noussair Mazraoui after a quarter-finals exit from the recent Cup of Nations. African World Cup Qualifiers Fixtures Today: Nigeria v Ghana (7pm); Senegal v Egypt (7pm); Morocco v DR Congo (9:30pm); Algeria v Cameroon (9:30pm)’; Tunisia v Mali (9:30pm). — AFP