The Herald Senior Arts Reporter Twenty-eight-year-old Sindiso Ndlovu was crowned Miss Africa Golden 2021 at a colourful ceremony in Lagos, Nigeria over the weekend. Apart from being crowned queen, Harare-based Ndlovu walked away with a brand new Ford Ranger car and a cash prize. The pageant which seeks to promote Black Originality Culture and Tourism saw 40 girls from different countries taking part and down — streamed to 18 finalists. The first princess went to Ethiopia while second runners up was Nigeria. Rwanda won third place. In an interview with The Herald Arts, Ndlovu who is still in Nigeria said she was shocked and surprised at the same time after announcing that she won. “This is shocking and surprising at the same time. It is a dream come true for me,” she said. During the question and answer segment, Ndlovu sailed flawlessly. Asked: “What do you like most about yourself,” the ever smiling model confidentially quickly said that she was a risk taker. “The one thing I like about myself is that I am always up for challenges, whether I win or lose I trust the universe has plans for me. “My role model is Kylie Jenner, who gained status as a billionaire from selling cosmetics, which is the same profession I am in. I own a cosmetics company known as Pretty by Sindy. I also own a car rental company.” Commenting on what she is going to do with the prize money, though she couldn’t unveil how much she pocketed, she said she already has big plans with it. “I won a brand new Ford car and a cash prize. I intend to use part of the prize money to fund my advocacy which is bringing awareness to mental health,” said the bubbly model. Ndlovu is not new to the pageantry as she once competed at some of the international pageant which include Miss Multinational in India where she made it to the top nine, Miss InterGlobal in Malaysia landing top five, and Miss Tourism Global in China, where she was crowned queen. “This is my fourth pageant and I thank God. I auditioned for the pageant through my national director Embrace Afrika,” she said. According to a statement by the Miss Africa Golden national director, Michael Eromonsele, since the flagship of Miss Africa Golden 2021, the organisation has worked tirelessly in preparation for the Next Golden Woman 2021 in Trabzon Turkey, which witnessed a cancellation due to the spread of Omicron. Again the organisation decided to move the event to one of Africa’s biggest tourist destinations but regrettably put the event in the hands of persons who could not execute the event and we witnessed yet another cancellation. “This endearing and challenging process has hit the first ever Afro Global Beauty Pageant, which promotes Black Originality Culture and Tourism and the emancipation of the minds of black girls all over the world.” Eromonsele said the organisation decided to move this event back to Nigeria where they have previously held three successful flagship events. “The first time Miss Africa Golden is going to Afro Global and we think it will be right and proper to have its first flagship Afro Global event in Lagos, Nigeria after several attempts to take it overseas,” he said.