The Herald Ellina Mhlanga
Sports Reporter
NATIONAL coach Pamela Fulton has hailed the junior team that represented the country at the Africa Triathlon Junior Cup over the weekend in Gqeberha, South Africa, despite missing out on a podium finish. Zimbabwe had eight participants taking part in the event, competing in the Under-19 category. The best performance came from Emma Lidsba, who finished seventh in the women’s category, and George Ascott, who finished on position 12 in the men’s section. Most of the athletes were competing in the event for the first time and Fulton believes their participation gave them the exposure and experience needed for future competitions. “The event went really well. The athletes have thoroughly enjoyed the whole trip and enjoyed swimming and racing in the sea the most. A first experience for most. “Our top performing athletes were Emma Lidsba in the women’s category and George Ascott in the men’s. “An outstanding performance for our Under-17 athletes competing in the Under-19 category. Everyone had to enter the Cup event, so (it was) only the Under-19 category. “I am happy with all athletes’ performance as everyone pushed hard to the end, but I do know a couple of athletes are disappointed with their individual results,” said Fulton. Captain Makanaka Mawere developed a back pain which affected her overall performance. “Maka had a fantastic swim but unfortunately developed back pain whilst on the bike which forced her to slow down. She dug really deep to finish the race in a good time although not as good as she had hoped for,” said Fulton. The event was also a platform to earn qualification for the Africa Championships scheduled for September in Morocco. Fulton said there were some athletes that made the grade for the Africa Championships but could not go into detail as she said the names will be announced in due course. Those that have not qualified for the continental showpiece still have a chance to try again when they compete at the Bonaqua Africa Triathlon Cup Troutbeck next month. “We have Troutbeck in two weeks’ time. This is an Africa Cup event and doubles as our national championships,” said Fulton. The event is set for April 2 and will also feature international athletes. Events on offer include the Elite/Under-23 Africa Triathlon Sprint Cup, African Triathlon Junior Cup, Off-road Triathlon Formats, Adult Age Group, and Youth-mini Triathlon Formats and Youth Super-Sprint.