The Herald Edwin Mtami In this week’s column, the ZSE is profiling Innscor Africa Limited (Innscor), as a constituent of the ZSE Top 10 Index. Prices and capitalisation figures are as at 14 March 2022. Innscor Africa Limited Innscor Africa Limited is a focussed group of light manufacturing businesses which, together with various strategically integrated agricultural operations, produce a number of Zimbabwe’s iconic brands in the consumer staple product space. Innscor Africa Limited was incorporated as a company in Zimbabwe in 1994, and began to transform into a conglomerate in the second half of the 1990s with the development of a distribution business and with the acquisition of interests in crocodile farming and the tourism sector. In 1998, Innscor was converted into a public company and listed on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange (ZSE) through a reverse takeover of Capri Limited.  Innscor, born in 1994, has given birth to an additional three companies separately listed on the ZSE and Victoria Falls Stock Exchange (VFEX) , namely Padenga (VFEX), Simbisa (ZSE) and Axia (ZSE). Innscor does not have shareholding in these companies which are now separately owned and managed. The current group structure of Innscor has the following companies either as subsidiaries or associates; Innscor is currently ranked number four by market capitalization on the bourse with a market cap of $159 billion as at 14 March 2022. The counter has featured consistently on the ZSE Top 10 Index since the inception of the index in 2018. Innscor’s share price has been one of the best movers on the ZSE after recording a 71% gain from the start of the year to close at $278.3857 as at 14 March 2022. On a year to date basis, Innscor has traded shares worth $1.50 billion and the total number of shares which exchanged hands during this period was 6.4 million shares. Information provided in this article is for educational purposes and does not constitute financial advice. You should obtain independent advice from a Registered Stockbroker or Financial Advisor before making any financial decisions. Please note that past performance cannot be relied on as an indication of future performance. It is important for all prospective investors to carefully consider their financial situation and consult a financial advisor or stockbroker in order to understand the risks involved and ensure the suitability of their situation prior to making any investment decision. For more information about the ZSE, visit Website: www.zse.co.zw Email: info@zse.co.zw Tel: +263 24 2886830-5 