The Herald LONDON – Arsenal star Bukayo Saka has been forced to withdraw from the England football squad after testing positive for coronavirus, with the Three Lions electing not to call up a replacement. The 20-year-old reported for duty at St George’s Park along with the rest of the squad at the start of the week, taking part in a training session on Tuesday. But he started to feel ill on Wednesday and had been isolating away from the squad in his room; although it was not initially thought to be Covid, the winger has now returned a positive test and been sent home. A statement from the FA on Thursday evening confirmed: ‘’Bukayo Saka has left the England camp having tested positive for Covid-19. ‘‘The Arsenal player has been isolating from the rest of the squad at St. George’s Park since Wednesday and has now returned home.’’ Saka posted a message on social media after his withdrawal, saying: ‘’I am gutted to withdraw from the England camp but I have tested positive for Covid-19 and I will be isolating until I am negative. ‘‘I’ll be supporting the boys from home this weekend and I can’t wait to be being back doing what I love soon.’’ England, who have already lost several players to injury and illness since the squad was named last week, have decided not to call up any further replacements following Saka’s withdrawal. Gareth Southgate’s side are due to face Switzerland today and Cote d’Ivoire on Tuesday, with both matches taking place at Wembley, as they prepare for the World Cup at the end of the year. England only have three training camps left before the tournament in Qatar and this month’s international break has been far from ideal for Southgate. – Metro. Aaron Ramsdale, Trent Alexander-Arnold, Reece James and Tammy Abraham all had to pull out of the squad due to injury and were replaced by Sam Johnstone, Kyle Walker-Peters, Tyrick Mitchell and Ollie Watkins. But Johnstone had to withdraw from the squad on Wednesday, also due to illness, and was replaced by Fraser Forster – who was named in an England squad for the first time since October 2017. England have no immediate concerns about other players testing positive for Covid-19 and insist Saka started isolating as soon as he developed flu-like symptoms. The winger will now be looked after by Arsenal and will be allowed to train with Mikel Arteta’s side as soon as he records a negative Covid test, and he should be fine to face Crystal Palace on April 4.