The Herald Elita Chikwati Senior Agriculture Reporter The United Nations resident and humanitarian co-ordinator for Zimbabwe Mr Edward Kallon has described the Zimbabwe Resilience Building Fund (ZRBF) funded Jotsholo Abattoir project as a good demonstration of effective public private partnership. Mr Kallon was on a two-day tour of Zimbabwe Resilience Building Fund projects in Matabeleland province. The Jotsholo Abattoir was established through a partnership between Outback Safaris (Pvt) Ltd and the Jotsholo Community Trust in 2020. The partnership was facilitated by DanChurchAid, the lead partner in the ZRBF-Sizimele Consortium. Each partner contributed 50 percent of the total cost of the construction of the abattoir. The Grade B abattoir is the first of its kind in Matabeleland North.  The project was designed to facilitate value addition at grassroots level, bringing the market to the people. The overall objective of the programme is to contribute to the increased capacity of communities to protect development gains from hazards and disasters. “This is a good project that demonstrates effective partnerships and has a strong sustainability focus,” said Mr Kallon. The district has an average cattle population of 107,000 and close to 600 cattle were previously slaughtered every month, in Bulawayo. This, deprived cattle farmers of up to US$50 in transport costs. In addition, distortion in market prices meant farmers were not realizing the true value from their cattle sales. ZRBF-Sizimele Project lead, Mr Diego Matsvange said, “We saw an opportunity to establish a project that would not only benefit the community today but continue to do so for generations to come.” The local community is represented through a multi-stakeholder registered community trust to ensure local empowerment of the community through active participation. In its first year of operation, the abattoir provided the local community with a livestock market for 3,065 cattle and 423 goats/sheep, injecting over US$1.5m into the rural community. The abattoir is one of a few in the country paying cattle owners 100 percent in United States dollars. Since the maiden slaughter on March 8, 2020 and 15 people have been employed at the abattoir earning a total of US$1,880 per month. Furthermore, the Trust receives 10 percent of all slaughter fees (currently US$2 per beast) as an indefinite entitlement. The community trust has to date received a total of US$6 130 as passive income to cater for community development projects in the district. Priority community projects undertaken include road rehabilitation, livestock pass on gifts and roofing of schools. The ZRBF is a long-term development initiative implemented by the Ministry of Lands, Agriculture, Fisheries, Water and Rural Development funded by the European Union (EU), Government of Sweden, Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). ZRBF-Sizimele is one of the seven consortia that are implementing the ZRBF projects in Zimbabwe’s 18 districts. ZRBF-Sizimele works in 57 wards within the three districts of Matobo, Insiza and Lupane. The consortium is led by DanChurchAid which works with the Institute for Rural Technologies (IRT), Organisation of Rural Technologies, TechnoServe, Community based organisations, ProAfrica Community based organisations, CyVAT, Community Capacity, Building Initiative for CCBICA, Future of Hope Foundation (FoHF) and Midlands State University (MSU).