The Herald GLASGOW. — Donations from the heads of two Scottish karate schools have set an African rising star of the sport on course to a bright future. Patience Mukarati (20) from Zimbabwe, has had her nursing course fees paid for by Sensei Seon Mclaren of JKS Glasgow and sensei Liam Gallagher of Senjokai Karate in Stewarton, Ayrshire. The pair heard about Mukarati when Dr Ginie Servant-Miklos of charity FairFight — which empowers young women and girls through martial arts — featured on their karate podcast. Patience, from Marondera, in Mashonaland East Province, Zimbabwe, is now going to study for the nursing aide programme at the Harare branch of the Red Cross. Mukarati, who joined FairFight’s karate school in Marondera in 2016, has already won multiple medals in karate competitions, including an international competition in Zambia when she was just 17 years old. She has been FairFight Zimbabwe’s karate team captain since 2019. Mukarati said karate had helped her overcome barriers she faced in life, saying she was “a better person, a better woman and a better champion”. “It helped me to know my rights, to know I can be someone else in life. It helped me to overcome difficult situations,” she said. “I just want to share with you that in life, never give up on whatever you want to do, no matter what people think or say. “Being a woman doesn’t mean we are inferior but rather we can be whatever we want as long as we are determined. ‘’I thank the FairFight group for supporting me mentally as well as physically. l wouldn’t be where l am if not for them. l also thank our supporters, mentors, sponsors for being with us since day one. “Your support is greatly appreciated by me and all the other karatekas.” JKS Glasgow was the winner of the Evening Times Community Champions Sports award last year for its contribution to the city. Seon Mclaren was also named Senior Coach of the Year by the Glasgow Council for Sport. Mclaren said: “Karate is about much more than punches, strikes and kicking. It not only teaches an essential life skill — protecting yourself in an emergency —  but also teaches everyone to become mentally, physically and emotionally strong and confident. — STV.News