The Herald Fashion 263 Baggy jeans and crop tops, puddle pants and sweater vests — many of your go-to looks could likely be taken up a notch with one of the best belts. You probably forgot all about this sensible accent piece during quarantine, and we can’t blame you: The amount of fussing required to style a belt makes it easy to discard the accessory in lieu of other sartorial eye candy. But belts are coming into their own this season, and you can thank brands like Bottega Veneta and Loewe for bringing the humble accessory back into the style zeitgeist — and mass retailers including Mango and Zara for helping it go mainstream as a must-have piece. Influencers and A-listers are also wearing belts in ways that make even the most basic outfit feel on trend — and aren’t at all intimidating to copy if you want to get out of an existing style rut. Take, for instance, the mini logo belt, which looks on point with straight-leg denim or a long winter dress. A thicker silhouette, on the other hand, instantly adds structure to an oversized blazer or voluminous winter coat, allowing you to get more mileage out of your fall and winter essentials.  From thin leather designs to colorful woven options, belts are seemingly cooler and more versatile than ever — and there’s no denying the power they have to tie a look together (or simply solve a tricky outfit dilemma). To help you streamline your getting-dressed process, we pulled together seven no-fuss outfit formulas for styling the best belts this fall, along with our top picks to shop now. Leather belt plus straight-leg jeans To start out on a familiar note, let’s begin with belts and jeans. This classic outfit pairing is a no-brainer to elevate one of the most hardworking pieces in your wardrobe. Opt for a semithick leather belt with hardware to keep things visually interesting. But there’s practicality involved here too: A belt is a solid alternative for wearing an otherwise too-loose vintage pair without requiring a trip to the tailor. Skinny belt plus oversize blazer A blazer is more versatile than we give it credit for, and all it takes to bring out its full potential is a belt. Tie a thin one higher up on the rib cage if you want to wear it as a minidress, or cinch it just above the waist to give an oversize silhouette some structure. Logo belt plus flowy trousers The puddle-pants look has been dominating our feeds since last spring, thanks to celebs like Bella Hadid and Kendall Jenner sporting floor-kissing trousers with enviable swagger. Lean into the trend with similar confidence by adding a thin designer belt, perfect for breaking up a monochromatic ensemble with shiny logo bait — and yes, holding those loosely tailored bottoms in place. Statement belt plus maxidress Dresses, especially colorful or heavily printed ones, can easily lose their charm if you wear them on repeat. Adding a belt, however, can make your look feel entirely new — and we love a metallic or rope version paired with a knit long-sleeve dress for cooler fall temps. (Psst: It’s also a fashion hack for turning a maxi into a midi if you’re on the petite side.) Chain belt plus cropped jeans Chain belts may seem challenging to style, but they’re actually pretty versatile once you ID the items in your closet you want to wear them with. An approachable way into the early-aughts trend? Dress up a simple outfit combo, like a white button-down and cropped kick-flare jeans, for date night. If you have already warmed up to the look, use it to add polish to a matching set à la Olivia Rodrigo. — www.iolnews.com