The Herald GLASGOW. — Hamilton Academical’s Zimbabwean striker David Moyo refuted accusations that he fouled Dunfermline goalkeeper Jakub Stolarczyk for his side’s first goal in the 2-2 draw in the Scottish Championship football match on Saturday — and says if anything he was the victim. The 27-year-old netted his first Accies double, cancelling out a Coll Donaldson strike and a Steven Lawless penalty, taking his tally to seven for the season. But the Zimbabwean international insists he did nothing wrong in the game. He said: “I just saw the ball in the air and I thought I jumped earlier and higher than the keeper. “It looks like a foul because he was underneath me, but I thought it was fair game. “It was one of those, where as I have headed it he’s punched my head, so it should be a foul to me, if anything!” Moyo was pleased to get the goals, even if he felt a point wasn’t really enough. It maintains the gap between eighth-placed Hamilton and basement side Dunfermline at seven points, going into the final stretch. He said: “That was my first double at Hamilton, so it was good to get it, it felt good. “My aim is just to get the team as high as we can in the table, so hopefully the goals keep coming. “I’m disappointed we didn’t get all three points, but we’ll take the positives and move on. “Every point is crucial. Obviously we wanted to take all three from the game so we’re disappointed with that, but every point counts, and hopefully at the end of the season it’s worth something.” Moyo says drawing games is costing Hamilton, but they still showed character to take a point. He said: “It’s frustrating to draw games because we have high hopes and high expectations of ourselves. “We want to get maximum three points out of games, but sometimes you just have to take the points that you get on the day and keep moving forwards. “It shows the character of the lads in the changing room. We went 1-0 down, came back, went 2-1 down, came back, so we’ve got that fighting spirit in our changing room and we just have to keep on fighting.“There’s plenty of football to be played, and plenty of points up for grabs.”— Daily Record