The Herald LONDON. — Rio Ferdinand believes Manchester United face at least another two seasons in the wilderness before they can compete for major football titles such as the English Premier League and Champions League. Manchester United legend Ferdinand believes his former club need to follow Liverpool’s example to reach the pinnacle of football again. The Red Devils have struggled for consistency since Sir Alex Ferguson left the club in 2013. While they have won various pieces of silverware in the years since, the English Premier League has eluded them and their last Champions League win was in 2008. At the moment, United trail the likes of Manchester City and Liverpool by a long way. And Old Trafford legend Ferdinand has urged the club’s hierarchy to take a leaf out of Liverpool’s book with Jurgen Klopp and give the manager who comes in after Ralf Rangnick at least two years to leave his stamp on the squad. Ferdinand wants to see United focus on the right recruitment for the new style of play under the next boss. Mauricio Pochettino at Paris Saint-Germain and Erik ten-Hag at Ajax are the leading contenders to come in at the end of the season. ‘’The problem I have is that Ralf has come in but then you’re going to have to change it again for someone else’s style of football. It’s then going to be another upheaval, new style to implement and players understanding that,’’ Ferdinand said on his Vibe with Five YouTube channel. ‘’I think personally United have got to write off the next year or two in terms of trophies, minimum — say ‘we’re going to rebuild what we have, get our recruitment right and there is a certain style of play under this new manager that we are going to go with and he is going to have time to get it all right, there is going to be mistakes, a few things that go wrong but we are going to stick with this guy and give him a minimum of two years to work it out’ and see the progress and that development happen. ‘’It’s going to take that long, and you can’t have that transition and win. It doesn’t happen. Liverpool didn’t do it. How long did it take Klopp to win? You have to take a leaf out of other team’s books. ‘’Sometimes you’ve got to humble yourself and take stock and say in reality, that is where we are at.’’ United were held to a 0-0 draw at home against relegation candidates Watford on Saturday. They still occupy fourth but the gap has been closed by rivals West Ham, Arsenal and Tottenham. Ferdinand admitted that last summer’s signings of players such as Cristiano Ronaldo and Raphael Varane left him thinking United would be able to cut the gap on the leading English Premier League contenders in Manchester City and Liverpool. But now, he has urged United fans to recognise where the club really is and to accept it will be a while before they are challenging for the major trophies once again. ‘’The hype of those signings hyped me up, hyped all the United fanbase up,’’ Ferdinand said. ‘’But reality has to come and bite and you’ve got to sit back and say where are we really at? “United aren’t in a place to win and challenge for trophies, that’s it — the big trophies, Champions League and English Premier League. “I just feel that sometimes you have to accept where you are. Manchester United have lived off past successes for too long. This isn’t the Man United of 12-15 years ago. Man United historically should be challenging but where they are now, no.’’ United are back in action on Sunday in the English Premier League when they take on fierce rivals Manchester City. — Mailonline