The Herald Trust Freddy University of Zimbabwe student (Media studies) The fight against drug and substance abuse must be extended to rural areas. At a time the world was fighting against the spread of the first wave of Covid-19 pandemic, two new ‘variants’ named drug and substance abuse were secretly spreading at an alarming level in Zimbabwe. When scientists discovered these variants it was too late they had already caused disastrous effects among the youths. The two variants are now threatening the extinction of human species and youths need to be quickly vaccinated against these new variants before the situation gets out of control. The nation is now fighting two pandemics Covid-19 and drug abuse. It is an undisputed fact that Covid-19 brought anxiety, stress and confusion among the youths. Many economies around the world were left screaming and Zimbabwe was not spared. Unfortunately, youths jumped from the frying pan into the fire, rushing to find refuge in drugs exacerbating an already dire situation. Broncleer (bronco), guka, tumbwa, glue, cannabis, cocaine, musombodhia and crystal meth commonly known as mutoriro among others, are some of the drugs that are being abused. The practice is common in both urban and rural areas. However, people seem to be concentrating much on youths living in urban areas, leaving rural areas behind. Various campaigns are being carried out in urban areas and higher  education institutions where the practice seems to be rampant. Non-governmental organisations have also joined the campaign roping in prominent artists such as Kae-Chaps and Bazooka to attract youth’s attention. This is a good initiative but it is high time to take awareness campaigns to places that have been marginalised for a long period such as rural areas. Drug and substance abuse seem to be prevalent in urban areas but effects are being felt in rural areas as evident by high rate of school drop outs and suicidal cases of teenagers. A 13 year-old Rutope Secondary school pupil in Bindura South took his own life last year after being chided by his own mother for coming home late. Another incident was also reported by The Sunday Mail of a 14-year-old girl who was said to have hung herself last year in Buhera  after being scolded by her mother for failing to do household chores. Though there may be other causes, experts have concluded that latest cases of minors committing suicide are being fuelled by substance and drug abuse. It is usually the senior citizens who bear the brunt of drug abuse effects as they are continuously tormented and physically abused by these youths after taking these illicit drugs. Zimbabweans can only reach ‘herd immunity’ against substance and drug abuse if there is a collective effort to curb this practice. Unfortunately, quite a number of suicidal cases and school drop outs have been mainly attributed to grinding poverty but a closer look shows that suicidal thoughts are emanating from drug and substance abuse. The Government must work hand in hand with different organisations to curb this practice. Sadly, these drugs are not manufactured in Zimbabwe and the questions remain:  who is importing them? How do these drugs find their way into the country? The Parliament and the Ministry of Home Affairs must make sure that drug peddlers are brought to book and face full wrath of law. Drug smugglers deserve deterrent penalties and the Government must close all loop-holes in our porous orders. Members of the community must protect themselves by reporting any case of drug abuse and report  police officers who take bribes from drug peddlers to ‘kill ‘the case. High density suburbs have become a haven and a perfect breeding ground for criminals due to excessive use of drugs which compel youths to indulge in uncouth activities. Traditional leaders, artists and church leaders must take part in awareness campaigns. The question is what about those without internet access? Rural communities are still lagging behind in terms of internet connectivity.  Radio must be fully utilized in spreading awareness considering that it has a wider audience. Zimbabweans must unite against this drug abuse pandemic before it becomes an endemic. Above all, the youths as future leaders must take responsibility to resist, fight and reject drug and substance abuse.