The Herald Elita Chikwati Agriculture Reporter Isolated thunderstorms were received in some parts of the country yesterday with some stations recording above 30mm of rainfall due to the cloud band affecting the western and northern areas, the Meteorological Services Department has said. Significant falls were recorded in Mutoko (32mm), Juru (27mm), Tsholotsho (27mm), Nkayi (25mm), Mvuma Agritex (18mm), Chinhoyi (14mm), Chibero (13mm) and Henderson(11mm). In Harare rains were received in the Central Business District, Hatfield, Waterfalls and Belvedere. Today cloudy and warm conditions should prevail in much of the country with a chance of isolated afternoon showers in Matabeleland South, Bulawayo Metropolitan, Matabeleland North, all Mashonaland Provinces and Harare Metropolitan Province. “It should be mild in the morning. All other areas (Midlands, Manicaland and Masvingo) should be sunny and mild both morning and evening,” said the Met Department. Many people welcomed the rains with others wishing that the thunderstorms continue so that crops that were succumbing to the dry spell could recover. In most areas crops are at critical stages of development that require adequate moisture. Some farmers are beginning to count losses as their crops especially maize is now a write off. Meanwhile the Ministry of Lands, Agriculture, Fisheries, Water and Rural Development has completed the first round Crop and Livestock Assessment and will release results on the total hectarage that has been put under cropping this season. Lands Deputy Minister Vangelis Haritatos said the First Round Crop and Livestock Assessment only reveals the status of crops and livestock and does not indicate expected yields. “We will only be doing the Second Round Crop and Livestock Assessment in a few weeks and then we will be able to assess the true damage that this dry spell has caused specifically related to yield. If we receive remains in the coming days this will certainly significantly improve things for our farmers. Climate change is real and is negatively affecting Zimbabwe especially when it comes to agriculture. Our Ministry has taken a purposeful switch to shifting policy towards climate proofing our agriculture,” he said.