The Herald CAIRO. — Al Ahly coach Pitso Mosimane has extended his stay with the Egyptian football giants until 2024. The 57-year-old has twice led the Cairo side to the African Champions League title since joining in 2020. The South African also boasts two consecutive third-placed finishes at the Club World Cup, including the 2021 edition played in February. Mosimane, who coached South Africa from 2010 to 2012, is in his first managerial post outside of his homeland. Recently named the best African Club Coach of the Year, Mosimane has not been short of success at Al Ahly, also winning the CAF Super Cup and the Egyptian Cup. “Al Ahly are delighted to announce that Pitso Mosimane has signed a contract extension with the club for two more years,” the 10-time African champions said in a statement. “The coach and his assistants signed the new contract, ensuring they will remain at the helm until 2024.” In a separate post on social media, Al Ahly said the renewal should “put an end to all the rumours that were circulating during the previous period”. Al Ahly currently lead the Egyptian Premier League, two points clear of second-placed Pyramids with a game in hand. During his time in South Africa, Mosimane also won the African Champions League title with Mamelodi Sundowns, in 2016. Though Al Ahly did not divulge details of the renewed deal, reports had earlier indicated the former Mamelodi Sundowns coach, whose current deal was to expire at the end of October 2022, will earn up to US$165 000 a month if he decided to stay. Mosimane took charge of Al Ahly on September 30, 2020, becoming the first non-Egyptian African to manage the North African side. Since his appointment, Al Ahly won back-to-back CAF Champions League titles, two Caf Super Cups, the Egypt Cup, and two Club World Cup bronze medals. His first success with the team came on November 27, 2020, when he led the outfit to their ninth Champions League title, after winning the 2020 final against their rivals Zamalek, and reach the 2020 Fifa Club World Cup, where they eventually finished in third place after beating Palmeiras on penalties in the bronze medal match. On December 6, 2020, he led Al Ahly to win the Egyptian Cup and also guided the club to win the final of the African Super Cup in Doha, Qatar. His success with the club continued on July 17, 2021, when Al Ahly won their second Champions League title and their 10th in total after a 3-0 win over South African PSL side Kaizer Chiefs in the final— BBC Sport Africa