The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter BOXER Kudakwashe “Take-Money” Chiwandire, who is riding on the crest of a wave after winning the World Boxing Council (WBC) super bantamweight interim gold title, has become the latest local sportswoman to write an intriguing success story as the country’s women continue to distinguish themselves. Chiwandire beat Zambia’s Catherine Phiri on Saturday night in Lusaka to become only the second African woman to land the belt after Phiri. And locally she is the first Zimbabwean boxer to win a WBC gold title. Her achievement adds to the many success stories by Zimbabwean women in sport who have hoisted high the country’s flag since the women’s field hockey team that won Zimbabwe’s first medal at the Olympic Games when they grabbed gold in Moscow, Russia, in 1980. Swimming icon and now Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Minister, Kirsty Coventry, won seven medals, including two gold medals, at the Olympics during her competing days. The Mighty Warriors became the first football team from this country to qualify and compete at the Rio Olympics in 2016 and the senior netball team graced the 2019 Netball World Cup in Liverpool, England. The Under-21 women’s hockey team have been to the World Junior Cup and will be returning to the global show-piece next month, in South Africa. The Zimbabwe Olympic Committee vice-president, Letitia Chipandu, said her wish is to see more funding being channelled towards women in sport. The landscape has remained biased in favour of their male counterparts. With support, Chipandu believes female athletes can achieve more as they continue to show their capabilities even with limited resources. “I am actually very excited and I am very happy. Most, if not all the medals that Zimbabwe is getting in the different sporting disciplines, the bulk of them, are coming from female athletes. “My wish would be, if the women do get more support, especially financial support towards preparing for whatever competitions they will be going to, it would go a long way in getting us lots of medals in sport. “I am very happy and I am very excited, it’s so fulfilling, it has fulfilled one of my visions to have women at the top in sport as participants, as administrators, or just doing sport, whether competitive or just recreational. “I want to wish Kudakwashe Chiwandire the best in all her endeavours. We are so proud of her, as a person, as a Zimbabwean, and above all as a woman,” said Chipandu. Long-distance runner Rutendo Nyahora, who represented the country at the 2016 Olympic Games in Brazil, said with a strong support system, starting at family level, the girl child and women have the potential to succeed. “I remember back then we didn’t understand sport, including our parents, especially as a girl child it was not easy for us, even for our parents to support us, especially my generation. “They started supporting us when they saw our Sports Minister Kirsty Coventry bringing medals home that’s when they started understanding sport. And understanding that you can make a living out of sport. “As women, we can do much better when we have supportive people around us. I have a 10-month-old baby and I am going back on track stronger than before, it’s all because of the support I am getting from people around me. My aim is to qualify for the 2024 Olympics,” said Nyahora. The South Africa-based athlete hailed Chiwandire for raising the country’s flag high in Lusaka at the weekend. “I was so excited to see our own Zimbabwean, Kudakwashe Chiwandire, winning the World Boxing Council title over the weekend. It shows that as women we are working very hard. “With financial support, we can do much better. And when you are stress free, nothing can stop you from doing your best.” Senior netball team captain, Felisitus Kwangwa, weighed in, saying that such achievements help in changing the negative perceptions towards women in sport. “First of all congratulations to her (Chiwandire). I hope she knows that we are really proud of her. “I think the major problem has been our society, their perceptions towards women who participate in sport. I think having women like these and seeing them achieving or being successful really motivates other people out there. “So I am really happy for her and I hope her achievements are going to have a great positive impact to other women who might be marginalised in sport. And, of course, those who are still scared of what the society will say to them if they are to choose their careers, their sporting careers in particular,” said Kwangwa.