The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter AFTER collecting his first full set of maximum points at the weekend Cranborne Bullets coach, Nesbert “Yabo” Saruchera, believes they can start to build from that positive aspect going forward in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League. The army side, who were promoted from ZIFA Northern Region Division One League after the 2018 season, are having their first year in the top-flight, after the Premier Soccer League was suspended because of Covid-19. Saruchera’s boys managed to dismiss fellow new-comers in the top-flight, Whawha, 3-2 at Ascot on Sunday. Goals from Kingsley Mureremba, Tadiwa Chibunyu and an own goal by Whawha’s new signing Calum English Brown secured all the three points for Saruchera who has managed three draws and a single win for a total six points from eight outings. After an impressive run in the Chibuku Super Cup, “The Hurricanes”, as Bullets are known by their fans, were expected to cause upsets but they seem to be struggling on the big stage. Saruchera, who has won the Division One title with several clubs, believes injuries and lack of what they call home ground played a crucial role in their slow start. “I think we are getting there as we have seen some improvements after our last outing. ‘‘The team had so many injury challenges as almost the nucleus of the team was sidelined for the past weeks. “Most of our players, who have Premiership experience, were suffering from injuries but they are recovering in time, especially for our next game. “We remain focused to mantain our status and to make sure that the side is not relegated in our first year. Most of my boys, including Wonder Kapinda, Lincoln Zvasiya, McClean Nyamakoma, Tendai Makoni, Tawana Chibunye, Douglas Mbewe and Moreblessing Mushangwe were all out but they have since recovered,” said Saruchera. The Cranborne Bullets mentor, who has a team blended with both youth and experience, said they are also suffering from fatigue as they are always on the road. “I think as a small team at times we also need home support and if we can have a place we can call home, I think it will help us a lot. Playing away all our games is not helping us as we are always at a disadvantage. “I think we also need to work on our defence and see how we can avoid to concede soft goals. I think we are going to improve after the latest victory as we have gained the much-needed confidence,” said Saruchera. Saruchera’s side will this weekend made the long trip to Mutare for a date with Bulawayo City after they adopted Sakubva as their home ground.