The Herald LIVERPOOL. — Liverpool winger Sadio Mane has claimed that footballers who live flashy lifestyles “irritate’’ him. The Senegalese forward, who’s scored 12 English Premier League goals this season, says he prefers to distance himself from a glamorous lifestyle and thanks his upbringing for his humble attitude. In a recent interview, Mane went as far as saying that he follows Cristiano Ronaldo and Neymar on social media, but “that’s enough’’ for him. He said: “I don’t want to give the impression that I’m a very critical person, but it’s true that there are values in football that irritate me a little compared to the upbringing I had. “But instead of criticising, I prefer to distance myself. The main thing is not to change, and I believe I didn’t. For a boy who comes from a small town, it’s a great victory.” When he was quizzed if he’d like to live a life like Cristiano Ronaldo or Neymar, he was definitive in his response. Mane laughed: “No! I follow them on social networks and that’s enough. I love the incredible life they lead, but I don’t think it’s for me. “I don’t really care too much owning expensive cars or smart devices. My major priority is always to make sure my country men  in Senegal  go to their beds with food, better hospital services and schools. I will never rest until I made a better impact in my community. “I do not have issues with other footballers, I am real happy and proud of other who spoil themselves with luxury cars and apartments it’s their money, they also deserve to spend it in their own way. For now I have my own ideas of how to spend mine. In the future I might also be able to buy luxury things, but for now I want everyone to be in better conditions back home.” The 29-year-old also confirmed that his ultimate dream in football would be World Cup glory with his home country. “(Win) the World Cup with Senegal, Mane said. “’First you have to guarantee qualification, but I want to believe in crazy projects, and winning the competition with my country is one of them. Gold every year.’’ Mane was in action on Saturday as Liverpool beat Brighton 2-0 in the Énglish Premier League. Mane says he would like to play with Kylian Mbappe for Liverpool amid transfer rumours linking the Paris Saint-Germain superstar with a move to Anfield. Mbappe’s current contract with PSG is set to expire in the summer and his future remains undecided with clubs across Europe vying for his signature. Real Madrid failed in a reported £146m move last year as the French Ligue 1 outfit turned down the approach despite the risk of losing the France international for nothing this year. Spanish outlet SPORT claimed last month that Mbappe is ‘’yet to close the door’’ on PSG but that Liverpool also remain in the conversation as the player is ‘’not convinced’’ with the project at the Bernabeu. The 23-year-old’s wage demands would likely prove to be a sticking point in any potential deal with Liverpool. But that hasn’t stopped Mane from hoping Mbappe could join him at the Reds. “I would like to play with him, of course,” Mane told L’Equipe. “It would be an exceptional attack. But now he is the one who has to come to Liverpool. I am sure he would like it.” Liverpool remain locked in contract negotiations themselves with Mohamed Salah yet to agree terms on a new deal. And the Egyptian’s agent Ramy Abbas Issa seemingly responded to Reds boss Jurgen Klopp’s recent comments about the situation on Friday. Salah’s current contract expires in the summer of 2023 and clubs across the continent will be closely monitoring developments. Reports from Spain in recent months have already suggested Real Madrid will turn their attention to landing Salah should they miss out on Mbappe. — Mailonline