The Herald Crime Reporter Police have launched a massive manhunt for criminals who are raping women and at times killing them in and around Harare. Most of the victims who were also robbed are found with bruises all over their half-naked bodies. A team of detectives has since been assigned to investigate and launch a manhunt for these criminals who are still at large. This week, police in Harare found the body of a 32-year-old woman in a maize field in Waterfalls, believed to have been killed by unknown assailants while such cases continue to be reported countrywide. The body was found with bruises on the knees and a deep cut on the nose. The body was found lying in a maize field in Get Bucks area, Waterfalls, with some bruises on the knees and a cut on the nose. A Huawei cell-phone and a plastic bag containing $210 and US$1 cash were found on the scene. The woman’s body was taken to a local hospital mortuary for post mortem. Last week, a body of a 17-year-old girl believed to have been raped and murdered by unknown assailants was recovered in a maize field at Kaseplan Farm in Pomona, Harare. Police said the body was found bleeding from the mouth and nose facing upwards with the skirt dropped to the toes. A pair of shoes, handbag and a packet of salt were placed beside the body. Another 54-year-old woman was raped and murdered in Mabvuku. The body was half-naked with pants pulled below knee level. A deep cut was observed on the head with one empty condom sachet and five unused condoms scattered at the crime scene. National police spokesperson, Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi, said investigations were in progress and warned people especially women to avoid walking alone in secluded areas as they were being targeted by criminals. Recently, police were hunting for a suspected rapist who pounced on an unsuspecting 36-year-old woman from Grasslands and raped her. The woman was reportedly on her way to collect her children from a nearby school in the area when she was attacked. Allegations were that before she was raped, the man demanded her cellphone and force marched her in a bushy area where he threatened her with death if she failed to comply. The incident is alleged to have occurred in the same area where an AFM pastor was recently murdered in cold blood, with growing suspicious that she was raped before being brutally killed with an axe.