The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter IT might be early days into the Castle Lager Premiership football season, but CAPS United striker William Manondo knows the Green Machine need to get it going after failing to win in their five opening matches. This is the first time Makepekepe have gone for five games without a single win in more than two decades. Their 2-6 mauling at the hands of Manica Diamonds last weekend, their first defeat of the season, worsened the situation at the Harare giants. And they will be hoping to collect maximum points against log anchors WhaWha at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow. Manondo, who has scored two of the only three goals the Green Machine have netted in five outings, believes his team can finally get their first win this season against the struggling Gweru-based prison wardens. “The game against WhaWha on Sunday (tomorrow) is certainly not going to be an easy match for more reasons than one,” said Manondo. “As CAPS United, we are coming from a morale-sapping loss, a 6-2 defeat against Manica Diamonds. It’s not only the loss but the margin that we need to look at. That means as a team, we are very much down and we are under pressure to redeem ourselves as a team. “That defeat was an embarrassment to be honest, especially for a big team like CAPS United. But, that is a part of football. Come Sunday (tomorrow), we are going to win. To put it perfectly, the match against WhaWha is a must-win. No matter how our preparations towards resumption of the league were, the fact remains, CAPS United is a big team and we always have to play to win games. “We are very much aware of the fact that WhaWha are also facing problems of their own in the field of play and they, like us are also seeking redemption after a rocky start. “But, we are CAPS United, the spirit should go hand in hand with the status of the team. We cannot afford to keep on disappointing our fans. It could still be early days but we should keep the leading crew in check. “We have to be honest with ourselves. We need to start winning games, picking points and keep the gap between the leaders in check. “Our season should now kick into life. We have failed our team, failed our fans and failed ourselves but we know we are capable, we have a capable team to start winning games and we need to do just that.” Manondo, who crossed the floor from Harare City, said CAPS United is a big institution and he ought to adjust to the demands of the team. “For me personally, it is a different journey, playing for Harare City and CAPS United is different. CAPS United is a big team and a big brand, you need to produce results week in and week out. The performance should be up there especially as a striker you need to score goals consistently.” Coach Lloyd Chitembwe has since hinted he could make some changes to the team that played Manica Diamonds last week.