The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter AFTER suffering a 2-1 defeat at the hands of Cam and Motor last weekend, Richard Chunga’s Chegutu Pirates stood up and dusted themselves to produce what is likely to be the season’s shock win in the ZIFA Northern Region Division One Soccer League on Wednesday. “Dzinza”, as Chegutu Pirates are affectionately known by their fans, became the first team to beat log leaders Herentals Under-20 when they managed a 1-0 win at Pfupajena in a mid-week fixture on Wednesday. A solitary strike by Khumbulani Chisambi was enough to upset the “Students” who had gone for 11 matches without tasting defeat this season. Chisambi, who has seen duty with Chapungu, Hippo Valley and Herentals, scored in the 56th minute to ensure that Chegutu Pirates collect maximum points. The 32-year-old striker, who hails from a football family, used his experience to beat his former paymasters “The Students”, who had managed nine clean sheets along the way. And Chisambi was happy with his contribution on Wednesday. ‘’It was a good game for us and we had a few chances which we managed to capitalise on. It was long before we celebrated a win and we remain hopeful that we will continue with the good run. “I grew up in Mbare before relocating to Gweru for my secondary education and it was then that I had an opportunity to have a trial at Chapungu. Although it did not last long, I went to Hippo Valley where I could not last the season as well. “It was at Herentals where I spent at least two years and to me they are a family as I know the team well. I celebrate the win but, the side also shaped me so it hurts as well,” said Chisambi. Chisambi, whose uncle Edwin Chifambi once turned out for Gweru United and Bata Power while his father Tendai Sithole played for Blue Ribbons, among other teams, almost quit football due to frustrations he endured. “I have not been playing in over two-years so I am working hard to get back to my best. I once contemplated quitting the sport altogether but thanks to (Norton-based businessman) Columbus Makumbe who has been supportive. “I think I am going to do well this season as I am settling well at Chegutu Pirates,” added Chisambi. The coming on board of businessman Makumbe to support the team financially has been commended by the community and technical team in the farming town of Chegutu. Chegutu Pirates coach, Chunga, also praised Makumbe for the support he is giving to the team. “I think we now have the right attitude and because of the support we are getting from Makumbe, the boys are focused. Before you would think of how the team can get to the venue and how we were going to raise the winning bonuses for the boys but we are slowly managing. ZIFA Northern Region Division One Soccer League Fixtures Tomorrow: Commando Bullets v Banket United (Commando Barracks, 2pm), Cam and Motor v Trojan Stars (Chakari), Herentals Under-20 v Black Mambas (Motor Action). Sunday: CUMA Academy v Simba Bhora (Rimuka), Karoi United v Ngezi Platinum u-19 (Chikangwe), Golden Valley v PAM United (Chakari), Chinhoyi Stars v Come Again (Chinhoyi), Harare City Cubs v Golden Eagles (Motor Action). ZIFA Central Region Fixtures Tomorrow: Tongogara v Bishpstone (Tongogara); MSU v Sheasham (Mkoba); Filabusi v Vumbachikwe (Filabusi); Loss Control v FC Platinum U-19 (Gresham); Chapungu v Dulibadzimu; TelOne v Paramount (TBA); Kwekwe United v ZPC Munyati (Baghdad).