The Herald Grace Mahora Upcoming model, Tanatswa Kafura (10) is excited after being shortlisted for Little Miss Zimbabwe pageant scheduled for April 16. According to the organisers, the competition focuses on showcasing talent, beauty and culture through kids’ modelling. In an interview with The Youth Interactive section, Kafura described her confidence as outstanding compared to other models after qualifying for the final nominees. “Confidence keeps me going because currently I am leading on Instagram and Facebook votes, “said the model. At a young age, Kafura can speak very eloquently about her expectations for the upcoming event that she is going to make it. “I am very sure that l will be crowned as the Miss Little Zimbabwe although it is my first time to compete in modelling. My dreams and imaginations should come to reality,” she remarked. Mafura is the first model in her family bold enough to start the journey to become one of the most beautiful queens in the world. The way she walks shows that she is a model before she confirms who she is. Walking like a model shows confidence. It also is as much in your smile as in your gait. It says “I know I look good.” It says it with chest forward and shoulders back (and a lot of hip movement) and by meeting people’s eyes with a smile. There are other things you can express through the way you walk of course Mafura testified that she prefers having a natural body structure. “l like looking natural because it shows the real me. Therefore, there is no need to do body workout, “added the model. In preparation for the Little Miss Zimbabwe, Kafura is receiving mentorship from Queen Wendy Maturi, former Miss Culture Zimbabwe 2018. Kafura is able to flow in her modelling due to support from family and friends. “I am pleased with the support that I get from my family and friends. I appreciate my parents for they are the ones that accompany me for rehearsals during weekends,” said the young girl. Time challenges have been the stumbling block for the model in trying to balance school work and rehearsals. With proper scheduling she managed to balance the two. “I used to face time challenges for school and modelling before l dedicated Saturday as a day for modelling practice.” She encouraged those who missed the chance to contest as models to find ways to do so. Above all, l would like to encourage other upcoming models who in most cases miss opportunities and lack of exposure to try using technology to overcome the challenge and network themselves like l did. “Parents should also assist us as kids on order to make it,”