The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter LOCAL professional golfers returned to the course yesterday at Bulawayo Golf Club where they are taking part in the US$30 000 Arenel Pro-Am tournament. Despite the rains that affected the country’s second biggest city, the professionals recorded low scores in the opening round of the event. A total of 180 professional and amateur golfers took to the course in the first tournament of the year that was organised by Brian Gondo who said he was happy with the progress they are making so far. Gondo, a resident professional golfer at Bulawayo Golf Club, is a product of Manicaland’s golf hub Hillside Golf Club, which has groomed several top professionals like Robson Chinhoi, Robson Saurombe and Biggy Chibvuri, among several others. Gondo, who had an opening round of two-under 70, said he is looking forward to a good second round this morning. “We experienced some strong winds and there were some rains in the morning. However, many players recorded fairly good scores. Everyone is happy for such a tournament and I am overwhelmed by the turnout as everyone who had confirmed managed to turn-up. “It has been long before we had such a huge tournament and I would want to believe it is the second biggest one after the Zimbabwe Open,” said Gondo. The tournament format is medal for the professionals and individual stableford for the amateurs. The US$30 000 will see US$20 000 proceeding to the professionals while US$10 000 will go towards the amateur golfers. Gondo went on to say he was happy a tournament was being held in Bulawayo after many others were held in Harare. “The tournament has put Bulawayo on the map as most of these tournaments have always been played in Harare so obviously having regional players coming in is a plus for us. I am so grateful to the management at Bulawayo Golf Club who have managed to keep up the standards at the club. “This tournament means a lot for Zimbabwean golf as we have not had such a big tournament in a while now. Our local players are really looking forward to make the cut and earn something. “A tournament of this size hasn’t been played in Bulawayo for many years now. It also definitely gives game time to our players who last have a competitive competition last year. “To be able to put up a prize fund that attracts players from other countries definitely shows that the local game is on the way up,” added Gondo.