The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Egypt captain Mohamed Salah has vowed to avenge an African Cup of Nations final loss last month to Sadio Mane-inspired Senegal when they clash again tonight at the Cairo International Stadium in Cairo in a 2022 World Cup football play-off. Kick-off is at 9:30pm. Failure in the continental final was particularly bitter for prolific Liverpool scorer Salah as he was also part of the Egyptian team that lost the 2017 Cup of Nations final against Cameroon. Liverpool teammate Mane played a pivotal role in the first Cup of Nations triumph of Senegal — atoning for a penalty miss in regular time by converting the spot-kick that won the shoot-out. Egypt host the first leg today and Senegal have home advantage next Tuesday with the aggregate winners filling one of five places reserved for Africa at the 32-nation finals in Qatar. The Pharaohs eased into this stage of qualifying after finishing at the top of Group F having won four out of their six matches while the other two games ended in a draw. The seven-time African champions then embarked on a 2021 African Cup of Nations campaign in Cameroon which saw them reach the final where they were defeated by Senegal on penalties just last month. Having taken part in the last World Cup finals in Russia, Egypt are looking to make it two successive appearances in the global showpiece. Their experienced head coach Carlos Queiroz has promised not to disappoint the Pharaohs fans. “They want to produce great performances and qualify for the World Cup. We are working hard in the camp and we’re trying to motivate the players after the incredible Africa Cup of Nations,” Queiroz told the media. “We can all feel a change in the atmosphere surrounding the team. Our goals are to satisfy the fans and god willing beat Senegal, and we promise we will play with a fighting spirit. “We thank the officials for allowing fans to attend the game, the players are happy with that and hopefully we won’t disappoint them.” Meanwhile, Senegal showed their dominance in the previous round of qualifying — winning five out of their six matches and they won Group H comfortably while also undefeated. The Lions of Teranga were able to carry their form into the 2021 African Cup of Nations finals where they went all the way to the final and they beat Egypt to clinch their first continental title. Having guided Senegal to the 2018 World Cup finals, head coach Aliou Cisse is expecting tough and difficult matches against the Pharaohs, who will be seeking revenge against the Lions of Teranga. “This double confrontation with Egypt, the team that we have just beaten in the AFCON final on penalties promises to be tough and very difficult,” Cisse said in the pre-match conference. “We are champions of Africa, but we are not favourites, because the statistics say that all the teams that have been African champions have not qualified for the World Cup. “It’s another competition, we will do everything to qualify. Professional football, high-level football does not only feed on the past. Today, we are facing two very important dates for Senegalese football.” In the Head-to-Head record, Egypt and Senegal will clash for the 14th time. The Pharaohs have the edge having won six games compared to the Lions of Teranga’s five victories while two matches ended in a draw. The 2021 AFCON final clash remains the last meeting between Egypt and Senegal. Fixtures (all matches today) Egypt v Senegal (9:30pm); Ghana v Nigeria (9:30pm); Cameroon v Algeria (7pm); DR Congo v Morocco (5pm); Mali v Tunisia (7pm). — AFP.