The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter KAROI United coach Levison Selous is looking to inflict more pain on ambitious Simba Bhora when the two sides meet in the ZIFA Northern Region Division One Soccer League match at Wadzanai tomorrow. Simba Bhora’s title ambitions suffered a dent during the midweek when they suffered a surprise 0-1 defeat at the hands of Commando Bullets. The Shamva side, who had a flying start in their debut season after roping in a number of ex-Premiership players, have lost ground in the race recently, and need to get their act together quickly. But Selous believes Karoi United can also take advantage of Simba’s slump. Selous’ side have been facing title chasing sides in his past two games after they played against second-placed Golden Eagles and lost 2-1 at their Chikangwe backyard. “Musha”, as the team is affectionately known, have always been intimidating as they are one of the oldest teams in the league. Karoi United have never been relegated. Selous said he is looking forward to a competitive match as they aim to avoid relegation and start on a high note next season. “My intention this year is to build a team that will make an impact in the next two seasons. I have a young team which is inexperienced and sometimes I think that is where we are losing it. The boys are playing at such a high level for the first time and the game against Simba Bhora is coming like any other game. “We will give them competition and I hope we will come out with a result,” said Selous. Simba Bhora coach Arthur “Tuts’’ Tutani believes it’s still game on and they need to look ahead after their 1-0 loss to Commando Bullets on Wednesday. The Shamva-based side are now trailing log leaders Herentals Under-20 by four points and cannot manage to drop points at this juncture. “I think we are on the right path and the race is still on. In football anything is possible. We are going to rectify our mistakes. “The team is now focusing on the upcoming game and I hope we will do well,” said Tutani Meanwhile, in the Harare Province Division Two, another “Mabvuku Derby’’ is looming when More Love face Inno Cosmos at Tafara High 1 School tomorrow afternoon. The two sides occupy third and fourth places respectively and they both hail from Mabvuku and Tafara. The game comes a week after another entertaining derby was witnessed last Sunday when Inno Cosmos, who are owned by former CAPS United striker Innocent “Marobha’’ Mugabe, played against Ali Sundowns. Inno Cosmos edged Ali Sundowns 1-0 in front of a full house at Mabvuku’s No.1 Ground. Mabvuku which last had a Premiership side when Circle United played in the top-flight more than a decade ago, now has three teams in Division Two with an ambition to make it to the Premier Soccer League. And leading this crusade is UK-based Mugabe and his Inno Cosmos; and Harare banker Desmund “The Village Pope’’ Ali and his Ali Sundowns.  Northern Region Division One Soccer League Fixtures Tomorrow: Golden Eagles v Banket United (Ellis Robins), Simba Bhora v Karoi United (Wadzanai), Chegutu Pirates v Commando Bullets (Pfupajena), Black Mambas v Harare City Cubs (Morris), Trojan Stars v CUMA Academy (Trojan), PAM United v Herentals U-20 (Murriel Mine), Golden Valley v Cam and Motor (Rimuka). Sunday: Ngezi Platinum U-19 v Chinhoyi Stars (Baobab).  Central Region Fixtures Tomorrow: Chapungu v Paramount (Ascot), Sheasham v Filabusi United (Gweru Sports Club), Vumbachikwe v Dulibadzimu United (Long John), ZPC Munyati v MSU (Munyati). Sunday: FC Platinum U-19 v Telone (Mandava), Bishopstone v Loss Control (Bishopstone), Kwekwe United v Tongogara (Baghdad).