The Herald Crime Reporter A suspected poacher was shot and killed at Malilangwe Conservancy Trust in Chiredzi during a gunfight with game scouts on Saturday and while his two accomplices escaped the scouts did recover a rifle and ammunition. A manhunt has since been launched for the other two. The three were spotted in the conservancy by the anti-poaching team who confronted them but they tried to escape by firing at the team. That resulted in the exchange of gun fire as the game scouts fired back. Police recovered a CZ550 rifle fitted with a telescope and loaded with one round in the chamber, two spent cartridges, seven spent cartridges of an MK3 rifle, a bag satchel containing a small iron axe and a flick knife. National police spokesperson, Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi, said there was now a police manhunt for the other two. Last month, police unearthed a black rhinoceros poaching syndicate that was moving around targeting the animals and de-horning them. The rhino is targeted for its horn, which sells for tens of thousands of US dollars in the underground, illegal wildlife markets. Police in Matobo recovered a black rhinoceros carcass at Makotama Resettlements believed to have been killed by the syndicate. Police discovered that the animal had two wildlife sensors used to record the speed, acceleration, tilt angle, and direction of movement of an animal and a bullet head on the forehead. Recently, rangers from Zimparks arrested seven suspected poachers from Chiredzi after they allegedly shot and seriously injured a black rhinoceros from Save Valley Conservancy. The suspected poachers surrendered after they were intercepted by an anti-poaching unit before they could dehorn the rhino, which was bleeding from the shoulder. They were Godfrey Makechemu (47), Joel Matuke (42), Ignatius Maunga (30), Farai Chauno (30), James Makumba (39), Jevas Mavuto (39) and Selestino Shate (39), who are all from Chiredzi. Rangers recovered a 404 rifle, a silencer and eleven rounds of ammunition from the suspected poachers.