The Herald LONDON. — Manchester City will face Liverpool in a mouth-watering FA Cup semi-final at Wembley. Crystal Palace, who beat Everton 4-0 and have never won the competition, play last year’s beaten finalists Chelsea in the other game. Liverpool had to work hard against Nottingham Forest but eventually progressed thanks to Diogo Jota’s goal on Sunday. Chelsea won 2-0 at Middlesbrough on Saturday, while Manchester City picked up a 4-1 success at Southampton. Carabao Cup winners Liverpool are chasing a quadruple this year, while English Premier League leaders City are in the hunt for a treble. “We have Watford, Benfica, City, (Manchester) United and Everton (after the international break),” said Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp. “From a Liverpool perspective these are all massive games and we try to play them one at a time and not all together. “We knew before the game City would be the opponent if we wanted to go to the final anyway. Now here we go. “The further you go in whichever competition the more likely you will face City at one point. “I don’t think we are the dream draw for anyone, but it will be a tough tie and we have to make sure it will be tough for City as well. “But there are a lot of games to play before that.” The semi-final ties will both be held at Wembley on the weekend of 16 and 17 April. City finally got the better of Southampton at the third attempt this season with a 4-1 win, while Liverpool needed a late Jota strike to see off Championship side Nottingham Forest 1-0. Forest had dumped out holders Leicester and Arsenal on their run to the last eight and could easily have caused another shock had the fine margins gone their way at the City Ground. “It was a proper Cup match,” said Klopp. “I know they don’t get anything for it, but a massive compliment to them, they played a really good game.” Klopp made seven changes with Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and Andy Robertson among those rested and it showed in a ragged Liverpool performance. Roberto Firmino should have put the Reds in front before the break when he tried to dink the ball over Ethan Horvath with just the goalkeeper to beat, but it was Forest who had the better chances after the break. — AFP