The Herald ABUJA. — FIFA medical officer who was on duty for the World Cup second leg final qualifying football match between Nigeria and Ghana in Abuja, Joseph Kabungo has died. Kabungo, who served as the Chipolopolo team doctor from 2003 – 2016, died on Tuesday night during a pitch invasion. Kabungo, a Zambian medical practitioner, is reported to have lost consciousness after he was beaten and stepped on as fans tried to make their way out of the stadium due to stampede. In a post on Twitter by British-Nigerian journalist Osasu Obayiuwana, his death was confirmed after he was rushed to the hospital. Kabungo was on duty as doping officer. His family, the Zambia FA and the government of Zambia have been duly informed. A Ghanaian sports journalist, Collins Atta Poku, who was at the venue gave a vivid account of the sad incident. “They beat him, he fell and they trampled on him. He lost consciousness was rushed to an ambulance closer to the Ghana dressing for CPR. The entire Ghanaian contingent watched on as resuscitation attempts were made with oxygen mask. He was taken to hospital later and now this. Sad,” he replied Osasu’s tweet. Fracas ensued after the Super Eagles failed to qualify at home with the Black Stars booking passage to the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup via the away goals rule following a 1-1 stalemate with both sides having draw 0-0 in Kumasi. The former Mufulira Wanderers goalkeeper also once served as Chongwe and Siavonga District Chief Health Medical Officer. At UNZA his mates fondly called him, “Walter Zenga” after the Italian great goalie. And Football Association of Zambia(FAZ)  president Andrew Kamanga says the country had lost one of the game’s leading lights on the continent and beyond. “Today we mourn the passing of our CAF/FIFA medical officer Dr Joseph Kabungo who was on duty as a doping officer in Tuesday’s match involving Nigeria and Ghana, and we extend our sincere condolences to Dr Kabungo’s family and the football family at large,” Kamanga says. “We take note that it is too early to dwell into the nitty-gritty of the cause of his death but will wait for the full report from CAF and FIFA on what exactly transpired.” Kamanga said Kabungo was a dedicated and widely loved member of the football community and his impact was vast, having also been part of the 2012 Africa Cup winning team. “His death is a huge loss as Kabungo was a friend and confidant to many generations of players and their families,” he said. — AFP.