The Herald LONDON. — Chelsea Football Club fans have been left stunned by the news that owner Roman Abramovich has been sanctioned, leaving the Blues in limbo with club activities now severely limited. Yesterday the club were banned from selling match tickets and were even forced to close their club shop as Russian owner Abramovich was added to the UK’s sanctions list following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. In addition Abramovich will not be allowed to sell the west London side and measures have been put in place to ensure he cannot profit from its activities. A special licence allows the European champions to continue playing all of their fixtures due to its status as a “significant cultural asset’’, but only “existing ticket holders’’ — including fans with season tickets — will be allowed to attend games. Staff and players can still be paid. Supporters though have been left fearing the worst though as the Blues at the very least face a rocky future. On social media, there were plenty of concerned fans fearing that the club in its current running would no longer continue, and predicting darker times ahead. They said: “Yeah this is it. The end of Chelsea as we know it. Was fun as long as it lasted.’’ The news coincides with the day the club celebrated their 117th birthday and fans noted how the there have been better ones for the Blues. “This is turning out to be a really s*** birthday for the club.’’, one supporter reflected. Another supporter feared it will spark the end of the club, fearing the sanctions could be hanging around the club for a long time, while sarcastically congratulating those that claimed Abramovich shouldn’t have just sold the club as quick as he could. They claimed: “Chelsea being given the death penalty basically. And no, these sanctions won’t be lifted anytime soon so this will be the new reality. Congrats to whoever advised Roman not to sell last week.’’ Not all Chelsea fans chose to look at the negatives though, with one fan believing that with the club being given  its ‘’significant cultural asset’’ tag it could be allowed a special type of sale to keep the club functioning. “We’ll get the special dispensation for the sale. There will be no “death” of Chelsea,’’ they responded. Meanwhile, one fan claimed the fall-out could even benefit some supporters who have been priced out of the club’s financial demands for tickets. They believe even a catastrophic implosion that would lead to a tumble down the football pyramid would at least make tickets to see their team affordable again. They said: “an’t wait to see us in League 2, might be able to afford a ticket then lol.” A Chelsea Supporters’ Trust spokesman said: “The CST notes with concern the Government’s statement regarding the owner. “Supporters must be involved in any conversation regarding ongoing impacts on the club and its global fan base. “The CST implores the Government to conduct a swift process to minimise the uncertainty over Chelsea’s future, for supporters and for supporters to be given a golden share as part of a sale of the club.’’ Rival fans reveled in the crisis at the Bridge, with a likely Arsenal supporter proclaiming the Gunners to be the new Kings of London. One supporter said: “I’m afraid London is red. Chelsea downfall starts now.’’ Abramovich’s sanction was announced yesterday morning. Speaking about the decision, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said: ‘’There can be no safe havens for those who have supported Putin’s vicious assault on Ukraine. “Today’s sanctions are the latest step in the UK’s unwavering support for the Ukrainian people. We will be ruthless in pursuing those who enable the killing of civilians, destruction of hospitals and illegal occupation of sovereign allies.’’ Foreign Secretary Liz Truss added: “Today’s sanctions show once again that oligarchs and kleptocrats have no place in our economy or society. With their close links to Putin they are complicit in his aggression. “The blood of the Ukrainian people is on their hands. They should hang their heads in shame. Our support for Ukraine will not waver. We will not stop in this mission to ramp up the pressure on the Putin regime and choke off funds to his brutal war machine.’’ Extra measures have been taken to ensure Abramovich cannot profit from Chelsea’s activities in the English Premier League. The club will be allowed finish their season as planned but only “existing ticket holders’’ — including fans with season tickets — will be allowed to attend games. Speaking about the decision, Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries said: “Today’s sanctions obviously have a direct impact on Chelsea and its fans. “We have been working hard to ensure the club and the national game are not unnecessarily harmed by these important sanctions. “To ensure the club can continue to compete and operate we are issuing a special licence that will allow fixtures to be fulfilled, staff to be paid and existing ticket holders to attend matches while, crucially, depriving Abramovich of benefiting from his ownership of the club. “I know this brings some uncertainty, but the government will work with the league and clubs to keep football being played while ensuring sanctions hit those intended. Football clubs are cultural assets and the bedrock of our communities. We’re committed to protecting them.’’ The decision to sanction Abramovich and the six other oligarchs came after Defence Minister James Heappey referred to the bombing of a maternity hospital in Ukraine as a war crime. — Mailonline