The Herald The Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova commented on the issue of biological activity in Ukrainian biological laboratories. We confirm that, during the special military operation in Ukraine, the Kiev regime was found to have been concealing traces of a military biological programme implemented with funding from the United States Department of Defence. Documentation on the urgent eradication of highly hazardous pathogens of plague, anthrax, rabbit-fever, cholera and other lethal diseases on February 24 was received from employees of Ukrainian bio-laboratories. This included an instruction from the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the urgent eradication of stored reserves of highly hazardous pathogens sent to all bio-laboratories. These materials can be found on the internet portal of the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation. This documentation is now being thoroughly analysed by specialists of nuclear, biological and chemical protection troops. However, even at this point, we can conclude that components of biological weapons were being developed in Ukrainian laboratories in direct proximity to Russian territory. The urgent eradication of highly hazardous pathogens on February 24 was ordered to prevent exposing a violation of Article I of the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention (#BTWC) by Ukraine and the US. This information proves that the claims we have repeatedly made with regard to the military biological activity of the United States and their allies in the post-Soviet space within the framework of the BTWC were justified. We cannot rule out using the mechanisms in Articles V and VI of the BTWC, pursuant to which the member states shall consult with each other to resolve any issues regarding the purpose of the Convention or the execution of its provisions, and cooperate in any investigation of possible violations of the obligations under the BTWC. Decisive actions to strengthen the BTWC regime are required to prevent any military biological activity carried out in violation of the BTWC. We call for the resumption of work on a legally binding Protocol to the Convention with an effective verification mechanism, something the United States has been blocking since 2001. In this context, we call for the creation of an open-ended group as part of the BTWC, which is in the interests of the overwhelming majority of member states. To strengthen the institutional foundation of the Convention we promote initiatives, which have wide international support, to create mobile medical and biological units within the framework of the BTWC (to render assistance if biological weapons are being used and to fight outbreaks of various origins) and to establish a Research Advisory Committee (to analyse scientific and technical achievements and to provide the states with appropriate recommendations). In addition, we suggest including information on military biological activities carried out abroad in annual reports provided by the BTWC member states as part of confidence-building measures. Only comprehensive steps like these will make it possible to place the military biological activity of the United States and their allies in the post-Soviet space, as well as other regions of the world, under close international control and ensure the verifiable compliance of the BTWC member states with their obligations. Chairman of the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation Alexander Bastrykin instructed the investigators to check the facts of the creation of biological weapons in Ukraine. Earlier Major General Igor Konashenkov, spokesman for the Russian Defence Ministry, said that the facts of an emergency cleansing by Kiev of traces of a military biological program being implemented in Ukraine, funded by the US Department of Defence, were revealed . He clarified that after the start of the Russian operation to protect civilians in Donbass , the Pentagon had serious concerns about disclosing information from secret biological experiments on the territory of Ukraine. Military expert Igor Nikulin said on March 6 that Ukraine could get nuclear weapons in just a few months. The specialist noted that Ukraine still has Soviet backlogs, so it is easier for it to create nuclear weapons than Iran or North Korea. In this regard, the Russian operation in the Donbass, the expert believes, turned out to be very timely. The day before, Russian President Vladimir Putin said that the possible deployment of nuclear weapons in Ukraine calls into question the future of this country. The head of state noted that the Russian Federation cannot ignore the intentions of a neighbouring country to obtain a nuclear status.