The Herald Correspondent Celebration Church last Friday hosted the launch of development worker Dr Olivia Gumbo’s book on her life journey titled “It’s For You Lord: Surrendered to His Will”. The 105-page book, which chronicles Dr Gumbo’s life journey, especially her prayer journey, and makes extensive reference to the Bible, is fulfilment of the Great Commission, according to her. “While I was in the prayer room praying and meditating on how to fulfil the call of the Great Commission in my life, I heard the voice of God saying to me ‘PhD’,” she said. In an interview with The Herald, Dr Gumbo said God had plans for everyone, but first and foremost one had to believe in Him. “He will show you the good purpose for which you were created,” she said. “I wrote the book because I realised that if I did not tell my own story, no one would do it for me. I recall a conversation with a pastor/friend who said that in the graveyard, there are many people who die with their stories.” Dr Gumbo said she had achieved something through prayer and through God who allowed her. The cast of people who endorsed the book, including Celebration Ministries International senior pastor Tom Deuschle, Legacy Urithi International founder Imelda Tsumba and Empowered Woman Excel Sacco chief executive Edna Mukurazhizha among others are persons Dr Gumbo says shepherded her. She relied on them spiritually and socially as they mentored her. Largely biographical, the book does not only trace Dr Gumbo’s personal academic life until she attains a doctorate, but also explores her spiritual journey as she sees prayer as an enabler of these sojourns. The 12-chapter book has takeaways at the end of each chapter which serve as the key lessons that each of these carry. By telling her story, Dr Gumbo believed there were other people in similar circumstances who will learn from it and get inspired and believe that they too could conquer through prayer. A holder of a PhD in development studies, Dr Gumbo is a prayer warrior who has worked in the sector for the past 18 years as a policy analyst who has been part of national technical working groups composed of government officials and development partners. She is also a philanthropist who helps people with disabilities, mainly in Chiredzi District. Dr Gumbo has since started a charity research hub for children with disabilities, through which she aims to develop research for children living with disability. ‘“It’s For You Lord: Surrendered to His Will’ is a must-read book which has the potential to inspire many towards individual success, as long as they find power in the Almighty.