The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter FORMER CAPS United and current Chippa United defender Ronald Pfumbidzai believes the Green Machine ensemble is capable of performing wonders this season. The Warriors player yesterday took time to motivate Makepekepe players ahead of their Castle Lager Premier Soccer League tie against Highlanders at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow. Pfumbidzai is in the country over this weekend after he, together with his Chippa United teammates, were given a few days’ off following their game against Marumo Gallants in Polokwane on Wednesday. Their next game will be on April 2 and the team management decided to give the players and staff a few days’ sabbatical. And Pfumbidzai decided to fly home where he met the Makepekepe players who he pep-talked to ahead of the game against Bosso. “I have been talking to the players as you know they are playing Highlanders in the weekend’s biggest game and I just had to give them some motivational words ahead of this match,” said Pfumbidzai. “I also had to let them know that CAPS United provides them with the perfect platform to showcase themselves before they are identified by foreign clubs. “You need to be grounded, disciplined and work hard and expose yourself to greener pastures. “I think the team is very much balanced, they have secured several experienced players who have played at the highest level. You look at players like William Manondo, Devon (Chafa), Dennis Dauda, Ronald Chitiyo, Bamusi (Phenias), Mateyaunga (Tonderai) and Chinani (Simba) for example. These are players who have been in the trenches for long. “They have won accolades at the highest level and having them in the team means everything. “The game against Highlanders is obviously very tough and the Green Machine should play well. But they stand a very good chance given the way they have been performing recently.” The 26-year-old said he still follows the local league with keen interest and makes it a point he streams the matches on ZTN. “I always watch local football; I love the local game so much. It is closer to my heart and I thank the Zimbabwe Television Network (ZTN). “You see, CAPS United is my home and whenever I am in Zimbabwe I see to it that I get to see them and today (yesterday) I was giving some words of encouragement to the                                   players.” Makepekepe have picked a rich vein of form after winning their last two matches. Forward William Manondo, who has scored in all the four games he has played for the Green Machine this year, said although Bosso are a tough opponent, Makepekepe should win the match at all costs.