The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter FRench-BASED Zimbabwe international Tino Kadewere is set to face English Premiership football opponents for the first time after his team Olympique Lyon was paired against West Ham in the quarter-finals of the Europa League. Lyon, who are unbeaten in the competition this year, progressed to the last eight following a 2-1 aggregate win over Portuguese outfit Porto during the midweek. A draw conducted yesterday pitted the French Ligue 1 side against David Moyes’ West Ham and a possible clash with European giants Barcelona in the semi-finals if the Catalan side progress from their last eight tie against German side Frankfurt. Lyon are unbeaten in the Europa League this season, having topped Group A ahead of Rangers, Sparta Prague and Brondby before defeating Porto over two legs in the round of 16. However, Peter Bosz’s side have been inconsistent in Ligue 1 and sit 10th in the table. The Hammers will host the Ligue 1 side under the London Stadium lights in the first leg on April 7 before travelling to the Grand Stade de Lyon on April 14. This will be a first-ever European meeting between the two clubs, following West Ham’s memorable progress to the last-eight with a 2-1 aggregate win over Spanish six-times winners Sevilla. Despite playing cameo roles since returning from injury, European football nights are set to continue for Kadewere who played the last 25 minutes when Lyon were held 1-1 by visiting Portuguese outfit Porto. The French side still held on to win the captivating tie 2-1 on aggregate and reach the quarter-finals of the Europa League for a third time. They had doubled their aggregate advantage 13 minutes in when Moussa Dembele beat the offside trap to slide home the opener last night. Porto levelled on the night thanks to a wonderful volley from Pepe – a first goal in UEFA club competition for the Brazilian. Kadewere, who has made five appearances in the European competition this season, was introduced in the 65th minute, replacing goal scorer Dembele. The Zimbabwean is still to open his European account, having featured 198 minutes in total since making his Europa debut against Danish side Brondby IF in September last year. Lyon joined giants Barcelona in the last eight along with RB Leipzig, Rangers, Sporting Braga, Atalanta, West Ham and Eintracht Frankfurt.