The Herald AUSTRALIA-BASED Zimbabwe national women’s cricket team star Anesu Mushangwe has been named in South Australian Premier Cricket Competition’s Team of the Year after another impressive season. The 25-year-old all-rounder plays for Glenelg District Cricket Club in Adelaide, South Australia, where she has established herself as one of the leading talents in the competition. After another impressive season, the Lady Chevrons star was on Friday named among the best performers in the South Australia Premier Cricket Competition. The all-star team was selected based on nominations received by all First Grade senior men’s and women’s coaches. Mushangwe’s teammate Courtney Webb was the biggest winner after securing the Karen Rolton Medal, awarded to the competition’s top player. Glenelg District Cricket Club finished on top of the log in the South Australian Premier Cricket Women’s First Grade Competition while they were third in the Twenty20 tourney. The Zimbabwean leg spinner Mushangwe has been consistently in the limelight since moving to Australia in 2019. Two years ago she won several accolades at the South Australia Cricket Association (SACA) awards ceremony after starring with both bat and ball to inspire Glenelg District Cricket Club to earn promotion to SACA Premier Women’s First Grade competition. Mushangwe scored 302 runs with the bat at an average of 75.50 while also claiming 40 wickets with an impressive average of 12.05. She also finished the season with the best bowling performance after claiming five wickets for just two runs in a match. Mushangwe has not played for Zimbabwe since 2019 due to visa issues. Meanwhile, Courtney Webb’s decision to move to South Australia has been given another tick, securing the Karen Rolton Medal for season 2021-22. Awarded to South Australia Premier Cricket’s top player, Webb won the medal despite only playing four 50-over games for Glenelg this season. The 22-year-old former Trevallyn Primary and Riverside High School student made the most of her time at the crease however, smacking 325 runs at an average of 108. Those performances, which included a score of 159* — the competition’s sixth-highest knock since 2008-09 — saw her win the medal by a resounding seven votes. The former South Launceston premiership player was also one of four players from her home club to be named in the competition’s team of the year. She joined Kate Peterson, Zimbabwean Mushangwe and Lucy Bowering, with coach Graham Sedunary also getting the nod. Webb’s form hasn’t just been contained to the Seahorses, scoring 72 off 89 balls for the South Australian Scorpions in their win over the ACT Meteors on Tuesday. — ZimSportLive/The Examiner