The Herald INTRODUCTION World Kidney Day is celebrated every year on the second Thursday of March to raise awareness of the importance of kidneys to our health and reduce the impact of kidney diseases . World Kidney Day started in 2006 . Definition of kidneys One pair of organs located in the right and left side of the abdomen responsible for removal of waste products from the blood and produce urine. Functions of the kidneys Remove waste products from the body. Metabolism of drugs from the body. Balance the body fluids. Release hormones that regulates blood pressure. Produce an active form of Vitamin D that promotes strong and healthy bones. Classification There are two main classes of kidney diseases 1. Acute kidney injury or Short term — most people recover fully from short term kidney disease but, can increase the risk of developing a chronic kidney disease at a later stage. 2. Chronic kidney disease or long term. Stages of chronic kidney disease Stage 2 Mild chronic kidney disease (CKD) Stage3A Moderate CKD with GFR = 45 – 59mil/min. Stage3B Moderate CKD with GFR =30 – 44 mil/min. Stage 4 Severe CKD . Stage 1 with normal or high glomerular filtration rate (GFR) Causes of kidney failure High blood pressure and diabetes mellitus are the most common causes of kidney failure if poorly controlled. They can also  be damaged from physical injury and any other disorders. Risk factors for developing kidney diseases Diabetes Mellitus. High blood pressure. Family history. Ageing. Signs and symptoms of kidney disease Fatigue — extreme weakness. Frequency — urinating more often especially late at night. Oliguria — little urine output. Hematuria — presence of blood in urine. Confusion. Dry and itchy skin. Severe symptoms Nausea and vomiting. Fluid retention. Changes in urine output. Anemia — decrease in red blood cells. Sudden rise in potassium levels Hyperkalemia.) Decrease in sex drive. Inflammation of pericardium (fluid filled sac that covers the heart.) Kidney diseases Glomerulonephritis — Inflammation of the glomeruli (tiny structures inside the kidney that filters blood. It is caused by infections, drugs or congenital abnormalities that occur during and after birth, it often gets better on its own. Polycystic kidney disease — generic disorder that causes many cysts (small sacs of fluids) to grow in the kidney. Urinary Tract Infection (UTI ) — Bacterial infections of any part of the genito — urinary tract  system, bladder and urethra are the most common. If UTI left untreated they spread to kidneys and cause kidney failure. Renal stones  — occur when minerals and other substances in the blood crystalise in the  kidney and form solid stones. CKD —This is the most common kidney disease. Diagnosis High risk groups are screened for kidney diseases. Lab tests are done to check kidney functioning the tests include : Glomerular filtration rate to determine the stage of kidney disease. Ultrasound scan or computed tomograph scan — these show any tumours or structural defects that may be present. Urine test to check for albumin (protein) and it is present in urine if kidneys are damaged. Urea and electrolytes test to determine creatinine levels if elevated kidneys are not functioning well. Kidney biopsy — a small tissue from the kidney is taken for histology to determine type of kidney disease. Treatment Treatment mainly focuses on controlling the underlying cause of the disease. Different drugs are used and are individualised. Dietary and life style changes that include : Low cholesterol diet. Low to no salt diet. Limit alcohol consumption. Control high blood pressure and  diabetes mellitus. Quit smoking. Lose weight. Increase physical activity. Types of dialysis Dialysis is an artificial method of filtering the blood when kidneys are failing or close to failing. Hemodialysis — blood is pumped through a special machine that filter out waste products and fluids. Hemodialysis sessions are individualised. Peritoneal dialysis — where membrane that lines the abdominal wall stands in for kidneys to excrete waste products. NB Avoid street and over the counter drugs For more information,questions and suggestions contact vi.loice@zimpapers.co.zw/0772224231