The Herald TRIATHLON Zimbabwe have named a strong squad of nine junior athletes to represent the country at the African Triathlon Cup in South Africa later this month. The continental championships are scheduled to take place in Port Elizabeth on March 20. They will run concurrently with the highly competitive South African Junior Championships scheduled to take place in Port Elizabeth on March 20. Zimbabwe’s team of fledgling triathletes is headlined by rising female star Makanaka Mawere. The Hellenic Academy pupil is widely regarded as one of the country’s brightest prospects. Mawere is ranked fifth among the juniors on the continent. She enhanced her status as a rising star in the sport last year when she finished third at the Africa Triathlon Championships in Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt in addition to another podium finish at the Africa Triathlon Junior Cup at Troutbeck Resort in Nyanga last year. Makanaka will be accompanied to South Africa by her sibling Matipa Mawere who won gold at the Africa Triathlon Championships last year. Duwan Botha is also another promising male athlete who will be looking to improve on his 12th position at the Africa Triathlon Junior Cup in Maselspoort, South Africa, last month. Triathlon Zimbabwe concluded the team following the final selection race at Mt Pleasant Pool over the weekend. “We are very proud to announce the team selected to travel and represent Triathlon Zimbabwe at the above-mentioned competitions. This is an important qualifying event for these athletes in the process for possible selection to represent Zimbabwe at the Africa Triathlon Championships in Morocco in September 2022,” Triathlon Zimbabwe president, David Ellis, said in a statement. “We wish these fine young athletes all the very best at this competition and have no doubt that they will give of their very best and represent themselves, this association and our country with pride,” Ellis added. The team will be accompanied by national coach Pamela Fulton and tour manager Roa Botha.  Zimbabwe Team Under-17-Under-19 Men: Duwan Botha (St Christophers School), Mandlenkosi Mthethwa (Princeton Institute Mutare), Tyler Steenkamp (Peterhouse Boys School), George Ascott (Peterhouse Boys School), Matipa Mawere (Hellenic Academy) Under-17-Under-19 Women: Jessica Fuller (Hellenic Academy), Emma Lidsba (Hellenic Academy), Brooklyn Tippett (Peterhouse Girls), Makanaka Mawere (Hellenic Academy) — Zim Sport Live