The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Fashion 263 They always say that our life is “March weather, savage and serene in one hour.” It is five days away. We conclude the month of March and yes, it was all about “Women”. With that in mind, I enjoyed reading a piece by fashion writer Joan DeJeans, though the story is usually now told, Charles Frederick Worth (1825–1895), often described as a French couturier of British origin, created the institution of haute couture. This take on fashion history defines the most respected sector of the fashion world — the sector where the economic stakes are highest — as having always been what it largely is today: a male preserve. It is true that, despite such notable exceptions as Coco Chanel, beginning with the founding of the Maison Worth in 1858, the great fashion houses have been run by men. From today’s vantage point, it seems as if it’s always been the same scenario: men designing women’s clothing and dictating not only colour and skirt length but the ideal shape for the female body — even the types of undergarments to be used to achieve perfect proportions. But the history of haute couture is more than an all too predictable chronicle of famous tailors. As I was in Dubai for Expo 2020 Dubai, I also attended the fashion summit where some international designers were talking about fashion. The lesson learnt was that be proud of your identity and culture, that way you can move fashion. I am sure we all agree that the trees are blooming, days are longer, and there’s a fresh energy in the air. Though the weather is unreliable and unpredictable, your wardrobe can feel it too, as the best summer- spring dresses are calling. Some local designers have already started introducing fresh styles on the daily, since somehow the awards season is over. Designers have taken “hole punching” to new heights, with midi dresses featuring all kinds of cutouts, slits, and unique twists for a next-level ab reveal. Obviously the shirt-dress should be in your closet. The good thing about the shirtdress is that you can also nail the look with just an oversized button-up — add a belt if you want to give an A-line silhouette. And those who want the sassy style can also be tucked into jeans. Then there is the “Everyday Mini”. Mini dresses may be your typical summer fare, but that doesn’t mean you can’t ease them into your summer-spring wardrobe. The key to making a shorter hemline work during cooler days is by pairing it with taller boots — knee- and thigh-high boots are both great choices — then topping off with some kind of versatile jacket, like a trench coat or oversized blazer that allows you to secretly wear thinner layers underneath. Opt for a short-sleeve chiffon mini, a strapless or sleeveless number, or a V-neck silhouette with sweet puffed sleeves. However, every wardrobe needs a clothing refresh every now and then. Whether it’s the latest sandals, jeans and co-ords, you just need to change your wardrobe. Remember there is that shirt you last wore ages ago. What is it still doing there? While the fashionistas in the Northern Hemisphere are eagerly awaiting warmer days with spring on their doorstep, the crisp mornings and nippy evenings are a clear indication that autumn is on ours. According to international designers the Autumn/Winter 2022 collections shown over the past month’s during fashion weeks — Paris, Milan, New York and London — have provided insight into what international fashion houses see the winter wardrobes looking like this season. This year many people are happy to see the return of physical fashion shows. Not only does this bring the drama as much love and so eagerly look forward to on the runway with over-the-top productions but it brought out celebrities who once again brought their fashion A-game to the front row. Of course, there were some shows that left more of an impression than others. Balenciaga’s show deserves an honourable mention. While the label’s creative director, Demna Gvasalia intended the show to be a commentary on climate change showing models battling to walk through a realistic-looking snowstorm, the Georgian designer also paid tribute to the heartbreak and suffering in Ukraine. Another stand-out show was Valentino’s all pink show. Fashion houses have been doing all-black or white shows for years but we’ve not seen a show dedicated to such a bold colour. The 81-piece “Valentino Pink PP Collection”, was designed in the same shade of pink which was created by creative director Pierpaolo Piccioli in collaboration with the Pantone Colour Institute. In the show notes, he explains, “Pink as a manifestation of the unconscious and liberation from the need for realism. The accumulation of pink elements is such as to eliminate the visual shock to bring out, together, the unique character of the person, expressed by the face and the eyes, and the work on the pieces of clothing: the signs that shape them into a silhouette, the textures that give them consistency, the decorations that are part of the construction. While these two shows will continue to have a lasting impact on the fashion industry, there are other shows that have set the trend for the chilly season ahead. Anyway here are three trends checked by Saturday Insider that came through strong on the runway. Oversized outerwear and mega shoulders At the Prada show, we saw leather trench coats with sharp exaggerated broad shoulders as well as oversized puffer jackets. The Dolce & Gabbana show was all about oversized structured suits with dramatic, completely over the top shoulders. Their gold and black double-breast suit made a shimmering statement while their oversized basketball bomber inspired jacket and hoodies are a more subtle take on the trend. Louis Vuitton went huge on outerwear. From coats to biker jackets, the look was bigger and better. Knee and thigh high boots While knee-high boots are not uncommon to a winter wardrobe, they are certainly big this winter. From Kim Kardashian to Rihanna we’ve already seen the celebrities out and about in them. We’re loving the more baggy, relaxed fit of this season’s knee and over the knee boots. Layering This is a trend we can all welcome with open arms. The colder it becomes the more layers we tend to wear. This season we see designers embrace the need for layering. We saw this best at the Louis Vuitton show where they layered different textured fabrics and styles. Mixing feminine and masculine. Layering structured suits over flowing delicate fabric. Layers of skirts over dresses. Givenchy’s take on the trend took more of a grunge feel, with all-over black on black layering of T-shirts, sweaters and baggy jeans