The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Five young designers will get a chance to showcase their creations in a room full of fashion bigwigs tomorrow after their two-month mentorship with designers David Tlale and Deon Redman. These hand-picked designers chosen among hundreds of potential mentees, formed part of The Fashion Lab project and were taught first-hand the business of fashion — from the perfect seam to creating a brand that speaks to one’s strength and handling the business side of fashion. The event will be hosted at the South African Creative Industries Incubator. The lucky five were chosen by Tlale after he saw potential in their designs. “Eersterust in Tshwane became our chosen place because we noticed that nothing has been done in that area in the aspect of fashion. We saw it important that we start finding gems in these hidden places and communities that not many people pay attention to because it is important that we start advocating for the clothing and textile industries from these communities,” said Tlale. The internationally acclaimed designer said he was approached at the beginning of this year to mentor these avid creators and to stage classes. The classes covered the dos and don’ts of fashion, building a cohesive collection and featured intense interaction with Tlale. He said the vision is to uplift and up skill designers in all facets of the fashion industry. “Mentoring young people, as this current generation of fashion creators, is our only way to advocate for this industry. Nobody can do it for us if we don’t. Nobody can change the game if we don’t. “These talented five are proof that once you nourish and train the talent, like we are doing and will continue to do so, we can produce business people who will later grow the industry and employ others. “Almost 20 years ago when I started my business — I remember very well that I did my internship for two months with a designer named Julian in Rosebank. “Post that there weren’t many programmes that would mentor young designers unless you yourself went out and asked for mentorship,” he said. — sowetan.