The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter OLD Georgians coach Mark Wilson is looking forward to a tough encounter against old foes Old Hararians in this afternoon’s Nedbank Rugby Challenge Cup final at Harare Sports Club. The two sides will clash in the final at 4.30pm after Old Georgians finished top of the log as their opponents finished second. The Nedbank Rugby Challenge Cup was cut short as the senior national rugby side — the Sables — are set to get into camp for the Currie Cup First Division later this month. Wilson said they were ready for the final and had prepared for the decisive match. “I think we are ready and everyone is raring to go. The game is promising to be an interesting one considering the rivalry we share (with Old Hararians). It is going to be a lot more physical, but we have worked hard since the start of the season. The team is intact as I have no injury worries, so I hope we will just stick to our structure and discipline. “We will try and give our supporters something to cheer about through positive running rugby, we need to be relentless in our execution,” said Wilson. Jeremiah “Jerry’’ Jaravaza, the OGs captain, said he was looking forward to a tough encounter against the Old Boys considering that it is a pre-season tournament. “I am looking forward to a good game and it will be tough. We are prepared as a team and everyone is looking forward to the encounter. “It is a pre-season encounter and the fitness levels will not come much into play as everyone was in the same situation (not playing the game due to Covid-19 restrictions). The game will come with pressure as a final and we will not read much in the past and we will be more conservative. “Everyone is happy that the sport is back and I urge all the local rugby fans to come in their numbers as we will give them some good rugby . . . There will be some fireworks in this match,” Jaravaza said. In the run-up during the qualifiers, OGs finished with 15 points as Old Boys were second on 12 points. The other match today will see Harare Sports Club taking on Under-20 High Performance for the third and fourth place at 3pm. “Sportivo”, as Harare Sports Club are known by their fans, finished third on nine points as Under-20 High Performance were fourth on five points. Meanwhile, the Zimbabwe Cheetahs 7’s training squad goes into a four-day training camp on March 14 at the Stellenbosch Academy of Sport in Cape Town, South Africa, as the team steps up its preparations for the Africa Cup and qualifiers to be played in Uganda. Zimbabwe Cheetahs 7’s training squad Kudzai Mashawi (captain), Godfrey Magaramombe, Vuyani Dlomo, Tamuka Pamire, Munopa Muneta, Kuda Nyamakura, Carlos Matematema, Jerry Jaravaza, Kuda Chiwanza, Munesu Muneta, Ryan Musumhi, Brandon Boshi, Nigel Tinarwo, Tadius Dzandiwandira, Keegan Cooke, Prince Ncube. Management: Ricky Chirengende (coach), Taff Mhende (manager), Margaret Gibson (Physio).