The Herald CHRISTCHURCH. — Mignon du Preez kept her composure and scored an unbeaten half-century as South Africa knocked India out of the ICC Women’s Cricket World Cup in dramatic fashion in Christchurch yesterday. South Africa reached 275/7 with Du Preez hitting the last ball of the match through midwicket off Deepti Sharma to seal South Africa’s fifth win of the tournament. Doing so ensured India were eliminated and the West Indies qualified in fourth place and will face Australia in the semi-finals. South Africa will play England. South Africa needed seven to win off the last over, and with Du Preez staying cool, brought that equation down to three needed off two. Then India thought they struck the killer blow when Du Preez holed out to the magnificent Harmanpreet Kaur at long-on, but television replays showed Sharma had bowled a no-ball. It was a very narrow call. Shabnim Ismail struck a single off the free hit, after which Du Preez delivered the coup de grace through midwicket, finishing on 52 not out off 63 balls and hitting just two fours. South Africa were largely in control of the run chase, thanks to a 125-run second-wicket partnership between Laura Wolvaardt and Lara Goodall. The latter finally answered the plea from the selectors for someone to fulfil the no.3 spot with a well-made 49 off 69 balls, in which she managed to hit the ball into gaps – something she has struggled to do for most of her international career – while also finding the boundary on four occasions. Wolvaardt delivered another cover driving exhibition in a beautiful innings of 80, that came at better than a run-a-ball and included 11 fours. The match changed when India went to their spinners, with Rajeshwari Gayakwad got one to turn past the inside edge of Goodall’s bat with Richa Ghosh reacting quickly to complete the stum[ping. In the next over Kaur, who scored 48 earlier and had run out Lizelle Lee, spun through the gate and clean bowled Wolvaardt. The required rate skyrocketed for the Proteas with India’s spinner tying them in knots, and wickets falling regularly until, Du Preez’s intervention at the end. Meanwhile, England cruised into the Women’s World Cup semi-finals with a crushing 100-run victory over Bangladesh in their final group stage match in Wellington yesterday. It sealed a dramatic resurgence for the defending champions who had been on the brink of elimination after losing their first three matches in the 50-over competition. They then won all of their remaining four games to secure a place in the top four. The comprehensive win saw them overtake the West Indies to join top qualifiers Australia and South Africa in the knockout stage. England lost wickets at regular intervals in the first half of their innings and were 96 for four before Sophia Dunkley, who scored 67, led a middle-order charge to get the score up to a defendable 234 for six. — AFP.