The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter AT a time when debate has been raging on whether the domestic game still has talent and when Zimbabwean football has been crying out for young talented players to spark the imagination of fans, Calum English-Brown arrived on the scene with a bang last Sunday. English-Brown (18) made his long awaited Premiership debut when he starred for Whawha in their 3-2 loss to Cranborne Bullets at Ascot. Despite his team’s loss, the Gweru fans in attendance invaded the field at the end of the match to mob and hail  their new-found hero as they believed he had put on a man-of-the–match performance on his debut. Some young fans could be heard chanting “Murungu wedu ishumba. Akanyanya!”. After being surprisingly frozen out at Herentals,  many would have thought that it would take a few games for the Zimbabwe youth international to come to terms with the top-flight, especially with the added pressure of being the only white player in the league and playing for a relegation threatened side. He quickly dispelled that notion with a polished performance that had the fans jumping out of their seats. English-Brown made intelligent passes, through balls and runs throughout the game. One particular run started from the edge of his 18 area as the player spun the first marker, dribbled through two defenders before laying off the ball to his winger whose cross led to the first goal of the match. A video clip of that move has since gone viral on the social media platforms. English-Brown, who has represented Zimbabwe at national Under-17 level, was extremely happy with his debut and the reception he received from the football fans in Gweru last weekend. “I would like to thank the club and the coach for the opportunity to make my debut in the Premier League. I would also like to thank everyone who came to the match and I urge all of Gweru football fans to support us in our upcoming home fixtures. Win, lose or draw I promise to give my best at all times for them.” The Legends Football Academy product, who had a stint in Germany, is looking forward to his next matches and heaped praise on his friend and teammate, Washington Mapuwa. “My teammates have been friendly and welcoming and I have the added advantage of having signed with the Mapuwa brothers. “Dibbellar (Washington Mapuwa) was my captain at Legends Football Academy and we were in the national Under-17 team together. If you thought I had a brilliant debut, imagine being Denzel Washington at 17 and scoring a Premier League goal on your debut.” WhaWha coach Luke Petros believes that the three Young Warriors have a huge role to play in his team. “I am proud to be the coach to have given Calum English-Brown his Premier League debut. There is no player in the league similar to him. “He has a lot to contribute to the team this season as well as his teammates. As a former attacker myself, I can also tell you that Denzel Washington is a special player. ‘’At 17, he already displays composure that many older strikers lack as shown by his fine finish”. Although WhaWha may not be a fancied team in the league, Calum English-Brown, Gweru’s ‘’white lion’’ and Denzel Washington may just be what the doctor ordered in their battle to stay afloat in the Premiership.