The Herald Beijing. – Beijing and Moscow advanced a vision of a new world order yesterday as Russia’s foreign minister made his first visit to key ally China since the military operation in Ukraine. Sergei Lavrov landed in the eastern city of Huangshan early yesterday for a series of meetings about the future of Afghanistan. But Russia’s bloody assault on Ukraine is likely to loom large over proceedings. Beijing has refused to condemn the invasion and has provided a level of diplomatic cover for an increasingly isolated Russia. Lavrov painted a picture of a new world order, saying the world was “living through a very serious stage in the history of international relations”. “We, together with you, and with our sympathisers will move towards a multipolar, just, democratic world order,” Lavrov said in a video released by the Russian foreign ministry ahead of a meeting with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi. The two ministers were shown on Chinese state TV in face masks bumping elbows in front of their national flags. Foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin later told reporters that Moscow and Beijing would continue efforts in “advancing global multipolarity and the democratisation of international relations”. Wang added that “China-Russia cooperation has no limits”, repeating a line used by President Vladimir Putin and his Chinese counterpart President Xi Jinping to characterise ties. “Our striving for peace has no limits, our upholding of security has no limits, our opposition towards hegemony has no limits,” Wang said. Lavrov will attend a series of meetings hosted by China to discuss ways to help Afghanistan, with diplomats from the United States and the Taliban-led country’s neighbours also expected to attend. The meetings follow a visit by Wang last week to Kabul, his first trip to Afghanistan since the Taliban seized power. China and Russia have become closer in recent years, with Putin notably attending the opening ceremony of the Beijing Winter Olympics last month only days before the Ukraine operation. Mr Putin and President Xi signed energy deals worth billions of dollars during that trip. – AFP