The Herald Godknows Hofisi Introduction As explained in my previous articles, corporate rescue in Zimbabwe is known by other terms such as business rescue or in the past as judicial management. The proceedings are regulated by the Insolvency Act (Chapter 6:07) of 2018, hereinafter called the Act. According to the Act, corporate rescue proceedings are meant to facilitate the rehabilitation of a company that is financially distressed. Section 121 of the Act provides for: Factors leading to insolvency I have written before that insolvency can be due to many factors such as corporate governance failures, imprudent financial management, adverse changes in the external factors affecting the business, internal constraints such as inadequate funding or old equipment, loss of key suppliers, customers or personnel. Application for corporate rescue by creditors According to section 124 of the Act an affected person (such as a creditor) may apply to a Court at any time for an order placing the company under supervision and commencing corporate rescue proceedings. In terms of section 124(4), after considering an application in terms of section 124(1) the Court may make an order placing the company under supervision and commencing corporate rescue proceedings, if the Court is satisfied that: If there is a reasonable prospect for rescuing the company. Section 122 allows a company to make a resolution for voluntary corporate rescue. Benefits of corporate rescue to creditors In the context of insolvency creditors are persons (natural or juristic) who are owed money by the distressed company. The primary objective by creditors is to recover what they are owed by the company. It may not be possible to recover the outstanding amounts if the directors or pre-existing management that caused the financial distress are still in office. In that case it will be in the creditors’ interest that the company’s affairs are managed by an independent or neutral person in the form of a corporate rescue practitioner. The benefits to creditors emanate from the general powers of the corporate rescue practitioner and the rights creditors derive from the Act. General powers of corporate rescue practitioner According to section 133(1) and 133(4) of the Act, the corporate rescue practitioner shall have the following powers and duties: Rights of creditors According to section 138(1) and 138(2) each creditor is entitled to: Conclusion There are benefits accruing to creditors if corporate rescue proceedings of a financially distressed company are carried out properly and effectively. Disclaimer This simplified article is for general information purposes only and does not constitute the writer’s professional advice. Godknows (GK) Hofisi, LLB(UNISA), B.Acc(UZ), CA(Z), MBA(EBS,UK) is a legal practitioner / conveyancer, chartered accountant, corporate rescue practitioner, registered tax accountant and consultant in deal structuring and is an experienced director of companies. He writes in his personal capacity. He can be contacted on +263 772 246 900 or gohofisi@gmail.com 