The Herald Ivan Zhakata Arts Correspondent ARTILLERY Gallery and The Unpublished ZW are hosting a month-long art exhibition dubbed Perspectives, which gives credit to unpublished works of photographers. The artists Davina Jogi, Simba Mufandikwa, Tadiwa Kunzekweguta, Tusichile Kasito and Wonai Haruperi showcased an array of photos showing a particular attitude towards a point of view. The exhibition was attended by art enthusiasts from across the city who came to have an appreciation of the photos on display. Peter Kaunda, patron of the arts and curator of Artillery Gallery, said it was a universal fact that photography held an unparalleled place in presenting a wide range of perspectives. “Photographers around the world, whatever style, have perfected the processes of communicating everyday life in truly transformative ways,” he said. “They have explored taboos and disputed the status quo while producing remarkable works. There is a power in storytelling and doing so visually that many visual bodies of work have tapped into to both question and change existing narratives about our beautifully complex Zimbabwe, its spaces and its people. “This exhibition and the colourful combination of portraiture, landscape, nature and documentary photography the artists have brought to it is no exception. The exhibition has collected the stories of our diverse people, our most sacred places and our invaluable environment.” Kaunda said the exhibition was a celebration of the people who have told the stories, their point of view and how they have chosen to share them. He said Culture Curatives was an initiative by Artillery to shift the attitude and culture of locals surrounding Zimbabwean contemporary art of all forms. “Creating a platform for artists to not only stand and create together, but share their individual perspectives through their chosen medium,” Kaunda said. “The intent of Culture Curators, through an event experience and exhibition, is to share our art acumen while enriching the culture of art appreciation in Zimbabwe. “This edition is our very first installation to establish the tradition of a quarterly culture, at Artillery. Culture Curatives aspires to achieve an experience that fuses visual arts with crafts, music, good food and drinks.”