The Herald LONDON. — Paul Pogba has admitted that Manchester United’s season is “dead’’ as they look to finish another disappointing campaign without a trophy — before suggesting he has wasted five years of his career. The Frenchman has given an incredibly frank assessment on his second spell at Old Trafford and looks set to leave in the summer now more than ever, with his current contract set to expire at the end of the season. While United are still firmly in the hunt to finish in the top four and secure Champions League football for next season, it appears that it is not enough to satisfy Pogba, who was a serial title winner at Juventus and won the World Cup with France in 2018. And while he won the Carabao Cup and Europa League in his first season back at United in 2016, Pogba has let his feelings known on the club’s longest trophy drought since the 1970s. “You have to be honest, the last five seasons have not satisfied me — really not at all,’’ Pogba told Le Figaro. “This year it is dead, we won’t win anything. Whether it is with Manchester United or at another club, I want to win trophies.’’ Pogba, who is currently away on international duty with France, also took a swipe at United’s interim boss Ralf Rangnick, revealing it has been virtually impossible to find any consistency in his role, given it’s always changing — a problem he doesn’t have with the national team. “It’s simple with France, I play and I play in my position — I know my role and I feel the confidence of the coach and the players,’’ he continued. “It’s normal to feel a difference at Manchester United because it’s hard to be consistent when you often have a change to your position, or the team system, or your partners.’’ The 29-year-old also said that he much prefers playing under Didier Deschamps with France in another jibe at Rangnick before questioning what his purpose is in United’s midfield. He added: “I get along very well with (Deschamps), he gave me a role that I know, but at Manchester United do I really have a role? I ask the question but I don’t have an answer.’’ And it wasn’t just Rangnick who Pogba has had issues with while at Old Trafford. The World Cup winner also claims that he was driven to depression by his fallout with Jose Mourinho when he was manager of the Red Devils. The former Juventus man was stripped of the vice-captaincy by Mourinho in September 2018 as their relationship turned sour, and he believes the situation led to mental health issues. “Sometimes you don’t know you’re depressed, you just want to isolate yourself, be alone, these are unmistakable signs. Personally, it started when I was with Jose Mourinho in Manchester,’’ he said. “My shrink can be my best friend, my wife or my son. Talking, being listened to, bringing out all that rage and depression that’s eating away at you, it’s mandatory for me.’’ Pogba has opened up about experiencing depression “several times” during his career. The Manchester United midfielder believes it is difficult for footballers to speak out about their mental health struggles. He adds high salaries are no barrier and the constant scrutiny players are under creates an intense environment they have to deal with. Pogba’s interview is the latest and clearest indication that he will not be extending his stay at Old Trafford beyond the summer and will leave as a free agent. According to The Telegraph, Pogba is prepared to bide his time before choosing his next club with the likes of PSG, Juventus and Real Madrid in the running to sign him. Pogba is also reportedly prepared to even consider joining a rival English Premier League outfit if the offer is right. Pogba recently returned to fitness for United after sustaining a bad thigh injury last year while with France on international duty. He has made 23 appearances in all competitions for United so far this season, scoring once. He also spoke about the burglary at his home last week, which occurred while he was playing as a substitute for United in the Champions League defeat by Atletico Madrid. Pogba and his wife Maria Zulay rushed away from Old Trafford after the game to be with their two young sons who were at home with their nanny during the break-in. The Frenchman indicated that his winners’ medal from the 2018 World Cup has been stolen, saying: ‘’When I went home, I discovered that my home was robbed following the entry of three people who stole my safe. There was my mother’s jewellery in there and my World Cup medal. “What scared me the most is that my two children were at home with the nanny during the incident. She heard everything, called my wife and security, then locked herself in a room with the boys. “For several days after, she was in shock. The most important thing is that my children are doing fine.’’ — Mailonline.