The Herald LONDON. — Lionel Messi has been slammed while Mauricio Pochettino has been labelled a “fraud” after yet another PSG collapse in the Champions League football. The French powerhouse have once again failed to achieve their target of European glory after Real Madrid overcame a two-goal deficit to progress to the quarter-finals as 3-2 victors on Wednesday night. It is a devastating result made all the more damning by the fact that they had one of the best transfer windows in football history last summer. But even the arrival of Messi has not changed their fortunes, and some fans accused him of being at fault. One tweeted: “Psg before signing Messi: 2020- Final, 2021- Semi final. Psg after signing Messi: 2022- R16. This guy’s actually taking them backwards.” The seven-time Ballon d’Or winner missed what could have been a tie-defining penalty in the first-leg last month, which others were quick to point out. “Messi’s PK miss in the first leg of this fixture is the reason why PSG are out in the R16,” began one. “Ronaldo in his first season at Juve scored 100% of JUVE’s UCL KO stage goals, Messi ruined PSG’s chances. That’s all you need to know about them.” Another added: “Messi cost PSG a place in the quarter final, don’t get it twisted.” Messi is without a goal or assist in his last NINE appearances against Real Madrid. The Argentine used to torment his old foes during his Barcelona days. But after his anonymous performance in tonight’s 3-1 PSG defeat at the Bernabeu, Messi has hit a slump against his rivals from the Spanish capital. The 34-year-old had a golden opportunity in the first leg last month, but failed to beat Thibaut Courtois from the penalty spot. Messi’s last goal involvement against Madrid came in May 2018. On that day he scored a left-footed effort in a 2-2 draw in Catalonia. A series of blanks have followed, now stretching into his time in Paris. Across his career, Messi has scored 26 goals against Real Madrid, also laying on 14 assists. Among them have been two hat-tricks, as well as a double in Barca’s memorable 6-2 victory at the Bernabeu under Pep Guardiola in 2009. Messi also grabbed a double in the 3-2 win at the Bernabeu in April 2017, during which he produced one of his most iconic celebrations. Real Madrid had gone down to 10 men following Sergio Ramos’ red card, but still managed to equalise in the 85th minute through James Rodriguez. Deep into stoppage time following a sweeping counter attack Messi swept home Barca’s winner, however, before removing his shirt and holding it aloft towards the Madrid fans. Such flair and artistry seemed a long time ago as he trudged around tonight, failing to cause Madrid any problems whatsoever. Pochettino wasn’t safe from the heavy criticism either. Although PSG are Ligue 1 champions in waiting, that is the only competition they are fighting for now after also exiting the Coupe de France in January. — The Daily Star