The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter SEASONED rugby administrator Abigail Kawonza’s input in the sport has been rewarded by the Zimbabwe Rugby Union after she was appointed in the Technical Committee responsible for the technical development of the game. Kawonza, a top referee, has seen it all in the sport where she has over two decades’ experience both as a player and an administrator. In her new role, Kawonza will work with the Under-20 team. She told The Herald yesterday that she was excited by the latest appointment where she will work with seasoned administrators like Gordon Chiromo, Bright Chivandire, Dave Nash, Tungamirai Mashungu, Trouble Burukai and Gerald Chipumha. The Chairperson of the ZRU Technical Committee is an accomplished former Sables and Craven Week head coach, Godwin Murambiwa. The committee will, among other things, be responsible for assessing the qualifications of coaches, up-skilling of coaches, upholding of the international coaching standards and to assist and advise the ZRU Executive with all matters Technical. “Like any rugby appointment, it’s a great honour, especially now working and rubbing shoulders with the big boys and getting my name on the same platform with the likes of Bright Chivandire and Godwin Murambiwa is a great achievement. “We are placed there to assist rugby as much as we can as the Technical Committee. “The Under-20 head coach, Shaun DeSouza, and his technical team are more than capable and have proved that and I am here to assist and ensure protocol is adhered to and that the team has full support,” Kawonza said. Kawonza believes they will ensure that Zimbabwe put its best foot forward all the time despite the challenges the sport faces. “Zimbabwe rugby has a lot of challenges and referees are not spared. The Covid-19 break had put us on the back foot, but we are grateful to our sponsor JFT, and others who have kept us afloat. “We just need to ensure our referees, at all levels, are keeping fit, and well exposed. Refereeing is a great opportunity to use one’s skills and passion. It’s open to all and we welcome all. “Only you can determine how far you want to go; with rugby the world is your oyster — just put in the work. Just looking at Precious (Pazani) and Talent (Gandiwa) should inspire a lot of youngsters in Zimbabwe,” said Kawonza. The ZRU said they are happy to announce the appointment of Kawonza who will be working closely with the Under-20s. “The Zimbabwe Rugby Union Technical Committee would like to formally announce the appointment of Abigail Kawonza into the National Technical Committee which is responsible for assessing the qualifications of coaches, up-skilling of coaches, upholding of the international coaching standards and to assist and advise the ZRU Executive with all matters Technical. The Technical committee is made up of established former national team players coaches and officials. “The technical committee is made up of Gordon Chiromo (committee member responsible for all foreign-based players), Bright Chivandire (Sables), Dave Nash (works with Head in charge of Schools), Tungamirai Mashungu (responsible for Schools Rugby), Trouble Burukai (ZRU statistician and responsible for Womens Sevens), Abigail Kawonza (responsible for the Under-20), Gerald Chipumha (Cheetahs). The Chairperson of the Technical Committee is accomplished former Sables and Craven Week head coach, Godwin Murambiwa. “The ZRU Presidium would like to wish her (Kawonza) well in her new role. Congratulations,’’ the ZRU said in a statement yesterday.