The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Davis Cup tennis team will be hoping to build on their performance from yesterday when they return to the court this morning against El Salvador in the World Group II play-offs after the first day ended with the countries tied 1-1 at Harare Sports Club. Zimbabwe’s number one player Benjamin Lock was the first on court against El Salvador’s number two Lluis Miralles, and lived up to expectations as he won the match in straight sets 6-1, 6-1. It took Lock only 57 minutes to dismiss his opponent to give Zimbabwe the lead they were chasing. Lock took control of the match as early the third game to lead 2-1. From there he maintained the upper hand, taking advantage of his serve and taking crucial points. Zimbabwe could have taken a 2-0 lead as Mehluli Sibanda had a promising start in the second match against El Salvador’s number one player Marcelo Arevalo but lost the momentum at crucial moments. Sibanda lost 6-4, 3-6, 6-7 (10-8). Sibanda took the first set 6-4, taking several break points. However, he lost the second set 3-6 before the match was suspended due to the rains. It took close to two hours before they returned to court for the third set and Sibanda seemed to have it under control leading 5-2 at some point but he allowed Arevalo to fight back and claim the last set. It was a painful defeat for Sibanda, who had the upper hand in the first and third set, and appeared to be on course to cause an upset. Despite missing the opportunity to take a lead, Zimbabwe captain Gwinyai Tongoona is upbeat, they will prevail over their opponents. “We need to go for it and try and get that doubles. If we get that doubles then we are 2-1 up, then we are in a very good position. And even if we go 2-1 down I think we are still in a good position because it was important that we win one match today. “So if we can win the doubles tomorrow then we are in a very strong position to win the tie. “Obviously I think Benji played well, he was very clinical. Mehluli played well, he didn’t convert the chances that he had but I mean that’s the best I have seen him playing personally. “I have watched him playing, I have seen him playing from when he was young, and I can easily say that’s the best match he has played. So going into the last singles on the last day I will be very confident that we can win two singles,” said Tongoona. Speaking after his match, Lock said today’s doubles match is going to be important for the team and a win will put them in better position to take control of the tie. “It was a perfect start for us I think that I handled the match pretty well. I know going into the match I didn’t really have to play necessarily my best level of tennis, I just had to play a good level and that’s what was needed and I served really well. “I played starting from the back and did what I had to, to get the win and I think it’s really worked in our favour. I was on the court for an hour maximum. So it wasn’t physical at all,” said Lock. The tie continues this morning starting with the doubles. The Lock Brothers Benjamin and Courtney take on Miralles and Arevalo in the doubles. Lock will then play Arevalo in the reverse singles while Sibanda faces Miralles. The winners from the play-offs will advance to the 2022 World Group II ties and the losing nation will play in regional Group III events later in the year. Zimbabwe should expect tough competition from their opponents as they will also be out to give their all to get a win.