The Herald Well, this is hypocritical. In a speech addressing Ukrainian refugees in Poland on Saturday, United States President Joe Biden exposed his country’s paranoia with Russia, saying President Putin should no longer be in power “for God’s sake”. While in the aftermath of the speech, US diplomats tried throughout Sunday to mask Biden’s brazen dislike of Putin and tried to play down their leader’s loose tongue, saying his speech did not mean Putin is not supposed to be in power, Biden had, in fact, already let the cat out of the bag. “For God’s sake, this man (Putin) cannot remain in power,” said Biden. This is a clear regime change agenda, that Biden could not hide. What with Biden sending millions of dollars of military equipment to Ukraine but at the same time ignoring the use of chemical weapons by Ukraine. There is proof that desperate Ukraine is beginning to use its chemical labs to produce chemical weapons. Biden did not seem to be worried about Ukraine throwing chemical labs on the eastern people and Russians. And, in his speech he chose to be reckless and attack Putin. If anything, the speech will inflame the situation in Ukraine. The net effect of Biden’s ranting on President Putin is that the Russian leader was right to launch a special military operation in Ukraine because the US wanted to use Ukraine to effect regime change in Moscow. This has been a US tactic throughout the world to destroy powerful governments and replace them with puppets that they control. In President Putin, Biden sees a man who has challenged western European political hegemony on the world. This is why Biden wants President Putin gone as soon as yesterday. But the good thing is that it will remain a wish. President Putin is too strong to leave power at the wish of Biden and his allies. Russia is not a weak country. It is not a small country. Biden should be ashamed of exposing himself to childish rantings. Everyone knows that the US has invested a lot in Ukraine because Biden fears that if the current government falls, which is imminent, his corruption case will be exposed. Biden and his son had a lot of corrupt deals in Ukraine and they could easily be exposed by the change of a new government in Ukraine. So we all know that Biden is scared of the fall of the current Ukraine government. Putin’s special military operation then becomes a threat to Biden’s special interests. — West Europe Think Tank (WUTT)