The Herald Ellina Mhlanga  Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S men’s field hockey teams are expected to host Zambia in a series between April and May in Harare as part of their preparations for the Central South Africa Tournament to be held in August. The series is being organised by the Hockey Association of Zimbabwe in conjunction with St John’s College. The national association has announced the Zimbabwe senior men and the Zimbabwe “A’’ men’s squads for the series that is going to take place from April 29 to May 1 at St John’s College. The Zimbabwe “A’’ side will play a three-match friendly series against Zambia development side and the Zimbabwe national men’s team will play a three-match friendly series against the Zambian national side. Both teams have been selected from the national pool of players who are currently involved in the sport. HAZ secretary-general, Sarah Bennett, said the idea is to help players gain match experience ahead of the Central South Africa tournament scheduled for August. It is serving as a qualifier for the African Games. “The series will start on the 29th of April and run through to the 1st of May. HAZ, in conjunction with St John’s College, will be organising the series. “The plan and thought process behind the series is (to) help our players gain match experience and also to aid us in our preparation for the Central South Africa Tournament in August, which is a qualifier for the African Games. “Our senior national men’s side are the top 18 players in our country at the moment, selected through our process of trials (IPT) and season/league observations. “The Zimbabwe “A” side are our blend of senior and Under-21 men’s players who are on the fringes of the national men’s team. They contribute to the set-up as replacements from the wider squad for injured/unavailable players,” said Bennett. In January, the senior women’s side took part at the Africa Cup of Nations in Ghana. The Under-21 women’s side are preparing for the FIH Hockey Women’s Junior World Cup to be staged in South Africa from April 1 to 12. And the series is something the men’s teams will look forward considering that competition in the last two years has been limited. “Exposure to international competition is always of high importance. This allows our players and coaches a chance to gauge how different our long-term planning is from our opponents and whether or not we are on the right track with our plans. “It is also a major motivator for adults and children who play the sport. Knowing that they have something to work towards encourages the players to stay involved,” said Bennett. The coaching team is headed by Niall Milner. Senior Men’s Hockey Teams Zimbabwe Senior Men’s Hockey Squad Brad Heuer (GK), Gerald Ntelezi, Esau Mufandaedza, Pritchard Matambo, Tafadzwa Mugore, Alex Breitenstein, Gift Chomunorwa, Alistair Macleod, Tadiwanashe Kamusewu, Joseph Ncube, Tatenda Kanyangarara, Arnold Mpofu, Mutsawashe Kanyangarara, Alec Chomunorwa, Asme Mpofu, Mufaro Rusike, Farai Musimwa, Eliah Mangere (GK). Zimbabwe ‘’A’’ Men’s Hockey Squad Louis Ngoshi (GK), Nathan Davies, Thamsanqa Moyo, Forbes Thindiwa, Munashe Mashoko, Kudzanai Tembo, Philip Machaya, Tariro Manonga, Naison Chapata, Tapiwa Mushayakarara, Rhett Macdonald, Evans Chikwani, Charles Makombe, Constantine Muchono, Onward Shumba, Ray-Royce Sibanda, Tinotendaishe Elijah, Rangarirai Mugwiniri, Tinashe Dzemwa, Takunda Mutiza, David Knox (GK), Steven Hatendi (GK).