The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter AS the Youth Equestrian Games draw closer, Zimbabwe will be hoping to build on some of the lessons picked at the just-ended Youth and Children African Championship. The YEG are scheduled to run between June and July in Aachen, Germany. Five African countries including Zimbabwe have secured their places at the YEG and the continental show-piece held in Algeria was an opportunity for some of the of qualified countries to gauge their level of competition ahead of the international event. Zimbabwe’s junior team consisting of the Roberts sisters — Zoe and Olivia — Amy Hay and Emma Wales Smith won a bronze medal. One of the officials that accompanied the seven-member show jumping team that competed in the junior and children’s section, Shayne Hay, says the event was a confidence booster ahead of YEG. “It is definitely a confidence booster, for YEG and the future, and the experience and lessons learned can only make you a better and stronger rider. The tracks were built by Frederick Cottier, a Level Four course builder, one of the top in the world. He built very technical and testing tracks. There is a lot for the athletes to take home and work on. “Under the circumstances, on horses that are ridden differently, mainly by boys and men in Algeria, our teams of girls did incredibly well. The horses were very strong. “Our riders were capable and tried their best to form a relationship with their horses in three days before the first competition.  The Juniors got a bronze in the Nations Cup on borrowed horses and the gold and silver medalists were on their own horses. “I was extremely proud of the way the team conducted themselves on and off their horses with determination and excellent manners. They all worked really well as a team, helping each other to tack up and prepare for the competition to giving each other advice on their new horses and the tracks . Hay believes such tours are important in exposing riders to different levels of competition that will contribute to their experience and growth of the sport locally. “This is very important for the athletes to gain experience for future events. It gives us a better idea of what to expect which we can share with other riders and coaches. It will give riders something to work towards, as it shows them that we can compete and do well against other nations. “It will encourage riders to take their riding seriously as they can look forward to being chosen to represent their country. It is always a privilege to represent your country, and of course it is an honour to ride in Zimbabwean colours, and if we perform well, it will give the sport more recognition. “It will also encourage more young riders to get involved if they see they can get chosen to represent their country, and compete and do well. An athlete can learn so much from these tours, and it is important for them to share their experiences and knowledge with other riders in order to grow the sport,” Hay said.