The Herald Ivan Zhakata Youth Interactive Correspondent TEENAGERS under the Teen Rescue Mission (TRM) dance group stole the  show at the Indian Holi Colours Festival held last weekend at Sunrise Sports Club in Belvedere, Harare. The group put up a thrilling performance that left the Indian community and other attendants begging for more. They were complemented by Indian artistes who also gave much hyped performances sending the crowd into a frenzy. Holi is the celebration of the arrival of spring which is blossoming with love, and for many and it is a festive day to meet, play and laugh, as well as forget and forgive and repair broken relationships. Graced by the Indian Ambassador Vijah Khanduja, the day was filled with a hive of activities and a large turnout of the Indian community. Teen Rescue Mission is a Zimbabwean organisation that fights against drugs, early pregnancies and crime among teenagers and youths. The TRM dance group did not disappoint when their time came as they put a great performance which got the Indian community’s eyes glued to the stage. They danced to one Indian song “Balam Pichkari” which made the Indian community rise up and dance to the performance. TRM dancing group managed to put up another grand performance dancing to local music showing great energy, much to the excitement of the audience . They closed their performance with the Zimbabwean Shona cultural dance. Aisha Mbele a 17-year-old girl from the group said she was happy to perform at the Indian Holi Colours Festival. “In this month of the girls and women, as a girl I feel so good and positive with myself that I can do it as a girl after the performance. I want to thank TRM for what they are doing for us young people and the Indian Embassy for giving us this opportunity as young girls and boys to showcase our talents,” she said. An 18-year-old girl, Shamiso Mutswe, applauded the Indian Embassy for inviting them to perform at the festival. “It is my first time to be in this environment and coming from the ghetto and having a feel of this life – for sure my mind has been transformed. I also love the Indian culture and today I am so excited that I am experiencing and learning it. “Performing at this stage has given me a positive mindset that as a girl child I can do a lot,” she said. Sherrif Mbele (19) echoed the same sentiments, and said he felt honoured to perform at the festival. “It is a dream come true to perform for the Indian community and being on stage at the celebrations was amazing.  I have never dreamt of it. I want to thank Teen Rescue Mission for this opportunity and this has helped me to believe in myself that I can go far without engaging into drugs.” Teen Rescue Mission Trust a non- profit youth affiliated organisation that has managed to take more than 500 youths in Chitungwiza and Harare out of drugs in a move to open doors for young people and give thema platform to show case their talents. The trust aims to create a young generation free from drugs, early pregnancies and crime. Ms Juliet Kwenda from TRM expressed their gratitude to the Indian Embassy and the Indian ambassador for opening the door to teenagers “We (are) so happy that this platform has given our young ones the spirit to believe in themselves as they showcased their talents,” she said. “Having them in this environment, performing on this level, also helps us as an organisation, to speak to them that you can go places without taking drugs. “This also helps to challenge other young people to develop a mindset to reform and  to get the opportunity to showcase their talents. “We call upon corporates, embassies and the Government to consider us for  entertainment at events, as we have young people who can do magic. This also helps them be positive and put something in their pockets through their talents.”