The Herald LONDON. — Arsenal will offer Marcus Rashford an escape from Old Trafford this summer. The Gunners are in the market for a frontline striker and will add the name of Manchester United’s striker to their hit-list. Mikel Arteta needs a recognised senior forward after Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang quit the Emirates for Barcelona. And both Alexandre Lacazette and Eddie Nketiah are currently out-of-contract, leaving the Spaniard short up front. The Gunners were linked with a string of forwards during January’s transfer window and Rashford was not understood to be up for grabs. However, a schism has developed with the striker coming under fire following an incident with supporters following the Champions League defeat to Atletico Madrid. Rashford (24) was forced to issue a clarification on social media afterwards, doing nothing to fuel the rumours that something is seriously amiss at Old Trafford. The forward has one-year plus an option for a further season on his current deal but has slipped worryingly down the pecking order under interim boss Ralf Rangnick. He has made just nine starts in the English Premier League this season and scored just five goals across all competitions. But if Arsenal can secure Champions League football next season, it offers the player the chance to kick-start a career that has hit a downwards cycle in the past 12 months. Meanwhile, Youri Tielemans has put Arsenal and Manchester United on red alert after declaring he wishes to play Champions League football. And that will be a boost to Mikel Arteta with his Gunners side in pole position to finish fourth this season ahead of the Red Devils and rivals Tottenham. Tielemans faces an uncertain future at the King Power Stadium with the Belgium international having just one year left on his contract. Arsenal reportedly held talks with the midfielder’s representatives in January over a potential switch to the Emirates. Meanwhile United have identified the ex-Monaco ace as a cheaper alternative to West Ham’s Declan Rice and Leeds’ Kalvin Phillips. Tielemans could be sold in the upcoming transfer window with it claimed he has rejected a bumper new deal to stay in the Midlands. And in a boost for Arsenal and United, the Foxes are said to have slashed their asking from £60million to just £35m to avoid losing him on a free. Commenting on his future, Tielemans has revealed he is not thinking about next season, but stressed he wants to be competing for Europe’s premier tournament. He told Het Laatste Nieuws: “I don’t worry about it (speculation). — The Mirror.