The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter HERENTALS striker John Zhuwawo has been in prolific form since leaving CAPS United two months ago. He has scored three goals and weighed in with as many assists in a season The Students are proving to be quite a force in the Casle Lager Premiership football. And Zhuwawo will be hoping to carry his scoring boots when Herentals face his former pay masters — CAPS United — at the National Sports Stadium this afternoon. The workhorse, who together with fellow newcomers Ali Maliselo, Godfrey Mukambi, Edgar Mhungu and Davison Marowa have helped transform Herentals, said he is not out to prove any point against Makepekepe though. “As a player, I can basically say I am very much prepared for the match against my former team, CAPS United on Saturday (today). This is going to be my biggest match talking from a personal point of view. It is such a big occasion for me given they are the team who made me who I am today,” said Zhuwawo. “I certainly have nothing to prove against CAPS United but only to play my best football, contribute what I have to contribute for my team Herentals, play for the team and help them win this match. “Basically, I am taking this match just like any other game we have played before but that feeling of facing your former club you know it is very much exciting.” Zhuwawo has started all the five matches played by Herentals this year since joining during this transfer window period. He has been on the sidelines following a nasty ankle injury suffered while turning out for the Green Machine and for the forward facing Makepekepe at a time he is on top of his game should be encouraging. “I have to do what is on the ground, after all football is the same. I am in a new environment yes, but look we have to play for the points. “I am not under any pressure, I will play my normal game and try to help the team win the match. “I was a CAPS United player but I am now a Herentals player and that is where my bread is buttered. I will try everything to try and help out my team win.” Zhuwawo said life at Herentals is enjoyable given the environment is conducive. “Herentals might be a smaller club as compared to CAPS United but the spirit within this team is gigantic. It is a club with so much enthusiasm, zeal to do well in the game and the environment is out of this world. “Honestly, this is a team that you get to really appreciate when you get into the system. The hunger for success is so inspiring, it is a team where everyone wants to win. “Everyone is fighting for each other; the togetherness is top-notch. It is a team that values everyone within the set-up. I think this season we will be very much competitive in the league and all other cup competitions. “I am happy to be in this team. We are always speaking the same language and that language is now starting to set in and we are looking forward to a fruitful season.”