The Herald Latwell Nyangu-Youth Interactive Writer College life has a reputation of being one big wild party. And its that pool where everyone can swim. In Shona, they say, ‘Hakuna dhibhi remhuru’. This translates to say, there are no children at college. Everyone is capable of standing on his own. As the Bible says in Ecclesiastes 11:9-10;  “Young people, enjoy your youth. Be happy while you are still young. Do what you want to do, and follow your heart’s desire. But remember that God is going to judge you for whatever you do. This verse has been interpreted in various ways by many. The bottom line is responsibility, but it has been thrown to the bins. The ‘there-is-no-tomorrow syndrome’ has  become fashionable. The contemporary crop of students is very fast-paced. You can’t overtake them, simple. Its easy for them to tell you, if you can’t stand the heat, ship out. They are quick to act but slow to be responsible. Most of the college students have repeated same mistakes done before.. But experience remains the best teacher. Today’s generation has not been keen to take notes from the past  when there was a moral code on sexual intimacy. Gone are the days when sex was sacred, but today it has become a pleasure commodity. Colleges have become sex havens with some universities being nicknamed ‘smore sex universities’ due to the level of such activities. Pregnancies have been terminated on several occasions. Abortion has become a frequent event. Despite such cases remaining under the carpet, you can not beautify a frog by applying lipstick. What is bad is bad! Whose child is it, doing what, where, why and how? If parents were to know what their children will be doing, some will collapse. And this remains a mystery as to what these students aspire to be in future. Many a time, girls regret little moments of enjoyment after their education is cut short due to either pregnancies or other wayward behaviour. Boys also have the same predicament probably after impregnating or being caught up in drug abuse. In college, students take control of their own lives although they may still want parents to finance their lives. They no longer need to be home at a certain time and don’t need to worry about parents or younger siblings barging in at an inopportune moment. It’s not fashionable to be promiscuous in college. Rather, it is a matter of personal choice. There is no rule at the college that says “you may be promiscuous every time”. Student at colleges celebrate  their first taste of freedom and choose what to do with it. Parents spend days worrying about sending their child off to college, especially the first-year students. Parents aren’t sure just how their child will act and behave when are away from home.. When you graduate and enter the real world, you are so jaded by how sex becomes indiscriminate. This is one of the reasons students have  more relationships than parents from past generations, when there was a strict moral code . Promiscuity at college becomes so ingrained, there is no reason you can find to be unfaithful to your partner. Unfaithfulness is so easy because the promiscuity not only affects your moral standing in society. The big problem becomes, you no longer have a moral code where sex is concerned. This is why most people who jump from one relationship to another become devoid of the ability to recognise love when it comes along. They think they recognise it; but, it is only sexual obsession with the person of the hour. It’s because there is no love involved in being promiscuous. Now, you can see why there are so many problems involving past relationships.. Those involved live for the “next big hit”. This may sound overstated to the promiscuous; but, it is very real. So, if promiscuity is your plan, be prepared to lose yourself in it and never be able to settle into the happy relationship that you may so desire. Learners ought to be responsible. College life is regarded as a learning process. Learners have to enjoy the happy moments while at college but responsibility should remain your first priority. There is life at college and there is life after college. As I sign out take heed of this  message from Galatians 5:7: “You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth?” Happy colleges days but…!