The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter Commando Bullets…………………………..(1)1 Simba Bhora…………………………………..(0) 0 COMMANDO Bullets inflicted title-chasing Simba Bhora their second away defeat in the ZIFA Northern Region Division One Soccer League at Charles Gumbo Barracks yesterday. Simba Bhora, who are among the top teams in the league race, conceded a 36th minute header from Isaac Kapfuyawanza. The Shamva-based side, who have not been doing well on the road of late, were left to curse their luck in the second half in which two goals were ruled out for off-side. The disappointing moment came when Kapfuyawanza connected a free header from a free-kick taken by leftback Charles Murisa following a foul on exciting Pride Mkombwe. Simba Bhora’s defeat saw them dropping to third place, behind Golden Eagles who beat Karoi United 2-1 to take their points tally to 31. Log leaders Herentals Under-20 drew 1-1 against Wonder Ngoko’s Come Again and moved to 32 points. Simba Bhora know it’s still game on in the marathon. The match started on a low note with Simba Bhora dictating pace as Hardlife Zvirekwi showed brilliance with some fine touches. Commando Bullets, who were on the back foot most of the time, managed to win a free kick on the left side of the box and Murisa curled in a beauty that was met by Kapfuyawanza. The ball gave Tinashe Madziro in goals for Simba Bhora no chance. Four-time championship-winning coach Arthur Tutani, who is in charge of Simba Bhora, was not happy with the way his players performed but is still looking forward to some improvements. “I am very disappointed. These are the games we should collect points but the boys were reluctant especially in the first half. “We had so many chances but we failed to utilise them. The team has been doing well in the past games and I think that affected them psychologically. “We need to remain focused and make sure that we remain in the chase for the championship,” said Tutani. Commando Bullets coach Irvine Chirume said they were prepared for the game and their win showed that there is no small team in Northern Region. “My strategy worked well and we managed to collect all the three points. The players played their heart out and we stuck to our game plan which was very key. “Our target is now to fight for the Super Eight ticket and winning against these top teams motivates the players as they are now confident that they can match any team,” said Chirume. Teams Commando Bullets: S. Sokochi, C. Murisa, V. Makota, I. Njelele, L. Nyamadzawo, S. Zhuwaki, C. Gwazo, P. Mukomwe, I. Kapfuyawanza, Y. Matembedza. Simba Bhora: T. Madziro, R. Machaya, B. Tuwaya, D. Phiri, H. Zvirekwi, T. Jaravani, W. Tafa, K. Tinapi, I. Nyanhi, T. Balakasi, B. Mushunje. Other Results Herentals Under-20 1, Come Again 1; Commando Bullets 1, Simba Bhora 0; Cam and Motor 1, PAM United 1; Karoi United 1, Golden Eagles 2; Ngezi Platinum Under-19 2, Banket United 1.