The Herald RIO DE JANEIRO. — It was derby day in Belo Horizonte, but that wouldn’t change anything. Joao Leite believed he had a mission assigned to him by Jesus Christ: to spread God’s word among other football players. So that afternoon in December 1982, just like he’d done for every match for the past three years, the Atletico Mineiro goalkeeper randomly approached an opponent before the big game started. “Jesus loves you and I have a gift for you,” he told Cruzeiro keeper Carlos Gomes as he presented him with a copy of the Bible. At the time, Gomes found it all a little strange given the circumstances. He even admitted to feeling in some way angry as he was handed the book. But that initial feeling later changed and he did actually join Leite’s religious movement — Athletes of Christ. He was far from the only convert. An association of evangelical Christian sportspeople, Athletes of Christ counted some of the most influential people in Brazilian football among its membership. At their first meeting they were four in number. That would grow to about 7 000 across 60 countries, including high-profile footballers such as 2007 Ballon d’Or winner Kaka and ex-Bayern Munich centre-back Lucio. “It all began with Alex Dias Ribeiro, a Formula 1 driver who competed with ‘Jesus Saves’ slogans on his cars,” Leite, who played five times for Brazil, tells BBC Sport. “I decided to do the same and played with ‘Christ Saves’ on my shirt, but then the Brazilian Football Association banned it and threatened my team Atletico with a points deduction. “It was then that I started to give Bibles to other players. But they were difficult times – there was so much prejudice against evangelical players. Not even the national team felt like a comfortable environment. It was not easy for me.” In 1980, around when Leite set out on his “mission”, 88.9% of Brazil’s population identified as Catholics. Evangelicalism – a movement within Protestant Christianity – accounted for 6.6%. The balance has since changed considerably. Research from Datafolha, a polling institute, put those respective figures at 50% and 31% in 2021. Brazil remains the world’s largest Catholic nation, but by 2032 it’s predicted evangelical churches will be drawing more worshipers in the country. When Leite retired from football in 1992, the Athletes of Christ movement was going from strength to strength. The association had its own TV show in Argentina, presented by ex-Brazil midfielder Paulo Silas and aired three times a week. They even tried, in vain, to convert Diego Maradona. One of their most prominent figures, Brazil right-back Jorginho, also handed out Bibles to opponents when captaining his club side Bayer Leverkusen, whom he left for Bayern Munich in 1992. Two years later during the 1994 World Cup, he was one of six evangelical footballers in the Brazil team that beat Italy in a shoot-out to win the final. Five of them formed a circle in the centre of the pitch and thanked God after Roberto Baggio’s penalty flew over the bar. The sixth member was celebrating in his six-yard box. “When Baggio picked up the ball I had no doubt we would win,” goalkeeper Taffarel said afterwards. “Anyone who believes in God will never lose to someone who believes in Buddha.” The image of Taffarel, now a Liverpool goalkeeping coach, celebrating with his arms raised to the heavens in front of a dejected Baggio, a practitioner of Nichiren Buddhism, served as the cover of the book ‘’Quem Venceu o Tetra?’’ (Who won the fourth title?). It included testimony from the players giving credit to God for the victory, which was criticised by legendary coach Mario Zagallo. It marked a turning point. The Athletes of Christ movement no longer enjoys the popularity it once had. But evangelicalism continues to spread rapidly within Brazil and its influence within the national team has only increased since 1994. Whereas Leite encountered some hostility towards his faith within the national set-up in the 1980s, nowadays evangelical pastors are granted special access to team camps. They rely on donations from players to travel and hold services in separate rooms designated by the Brazilian FA. In some cases, pastors have even become part of players’ entourages. During the 2002 World Cup – which Brazil also won – defender Lucio, Kaka and ex-Barcelona defender Edmilson would join in prayer. “You could do whatever you wanted on your days off,” Lucio told the magazine Revista Trip in 2010. “For me, those were moments of faith. “We tried to discuss positive ideas on how to handle the enormous pressure we had to face in those games.” After winning the 2009 Confederations Cup in South Africa, Lucio and other players wore white shirts with devout slogans such as ‘’I love God’’ and ‘’I belong to Jesus’’. Officials told them to remove them, but Lucio resisted and draped his around his shorts as he raised the trophy. The Danish FA publicly complained about the image and a warning letter was      sent to Brazil by FIFA, whose rules ban “political, religious or personal statements”. The following year, voices from within Brazil started to question whether evangelicalism had too much influence on the national set-up. Amid growing pressure for Ronaldinho, then playing for AC Milan, to be called up for the 2010 World Cup, ESPN magazine wrote on its cover page that he wouldn’t go because “to play for the Selecao, football is not enough. You have to be a member of the ‘igrejinha’ (literally ‘little church’, also meaning ‘clique’ or ‘closed shop’)”. — BBC Sport. 