The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter HERENTALS might be having a dream start to the season but coach Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva reckons they will be the underdogs when they face CAPS United in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League tie at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow afternoon. The Students are fresh from posting an impressive 2-0 win over Tenax last weekend while Makepekepe survived a late onslaught from Highlanders in their 1-1 draw on the same day. But Mutiwekuziva says he will be the first person to acknowledge Makepekepe are always tricky to face. “CAPS United are a big brand and they are the favourites to win the match obviously. We are the underdogs going into this game given their status as one of the traditional giants of Zimbabwean football. “At the same time, they have rejuvenated and they are posting impressive results of late. But I am not reading much into that, I am looking more into my team, instead, as I try to improve those areas I feel should be improved,” said Mutiwekuziva. “I am hopeful that we will be able to carry on from the last result from which we beat Tenax in Mutare last week.” Mutiwekuziva has been working on his side’s defensive lapses which saw them capitulate in a 0-4 defeat to Highlanders a fortnight ago. But he has been encouraged by the clean sheet his charges posted in last weekend’s game against Tenax. “We managed to keep a clean sheet in that match as well which is very positive given previously we had conceded four goals against Highlanders. “In the match against Highlanders, we were badly exposed but we managed to shut Tenax out in the last match. So this is also an area we have been working so hard to try and improve. I hope we will keep things intact at the back against CAPS United. “Offensively, we have been performing very well, scoring in almost every game and we are looking forward to continue scoring goals. “Obviously, this is a very important aspect of the game as well. Against CAPS United, we need to make sure that we utilise all our chances as this has also been one of our major weaknesses in this run. “We are not reading much into the results we got versus what CAPS United got. We know CAPS United drew against Highlanders while we won against Tenax and we are very much aware of the fact that these are two different teams CAPS United and Herentals played last week. We have to switch on our minds, open our eyes and fight for the points. “But most certainly, the win against Tenax boosted our confidence ahead of this match and we will be geared to face the challenge on Saturday.” While Herentals, who have been buoyed by the return of Tino Benza and Wilmore Chimbetu, plot the downfall of the Green Machine, Black Rhinos coach Herbert ‘’Jompano’’ Maruwa is working on improving his side’s concentration levels as they gun for three points against Bulawayo Chiefs at Sakubva tomorrow.