The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter BODYBUILDER John Mushaninga believes he is in the right shape to compete strongly at the Mr Novice Zimbabwe to be held at TrySupps Fitness Academy Fife Avenue branch in Harare tomorrow. The athlete, who trains at Reserve Bank Sports Club under Alister Dimba, will feature in the Senior Men Bodybuilding category, which will be the main event at the show. Mushaninga, told The Herald that he is in the right frame of mind and has worked hard in the past few months after the contest, which is the first on the bodybuilding calendar this year, was confirmed. The hulk said he would do it for his mother who passed away at the time he was about to take part in the 2021 edition of the Mr Novice, which was later cancelled because of Covid-19. “I am doing well. As my first time going on the stage, I think I will give it my best. I am in the right frame of mind unlike the last time when I wanted to take part but then my mum passed on. It was a difficult phase. Fortunately, the event was cancelled because of Covid-19. “I think I will do everything for my mum and friend Panashe Mkonyora who helped me regain my confidence. “After the passing on of my mother I had decided to call it a day on bodybuilding, but Mkonyora came to me and comforted me to continue in the sport. “He also assists me with the supplements and that saw me regain my confidence. So going on the stage on Saturday (tomorrow), those will be the people I will try and impress as well as my coach Dimba. “Dimba is someone who drives me to work hard. After we met sometime last year he said you have the potential, let’s work together and see how it goes and that was how we hooked up,” said Mushaninga. The 23-year-old is, however, expected to face stiff competition from other novices who are coming from all corners of the country. Mr Novice is the first National Federation of Zimbabwe Body Building and Fitness (NFZBBF) contest for this year and it is expected to attract a total of 50 athletes drawn from around the country. The competition is sponsored by TrySupps Zimbabwe and will feature the upcoming bodybuilders who have never been on the stage before. The competition will have five categories from which winners will be crowned and these include Junior Bodybuilding, Women Fitness, Men’s Fitness, Men’s Physique and Senior Bodybuilding. The categories include Juniors Under-21, Seniors One Line-Up, Ladies Fitness Figure and Men’s Fitness Physique. Mr Novice is arguably the most important competition on the calendar as it helps to expose novices to the fitness industry in terms of training and nutrition and career progression. Shantel Batch of Bulawayo is expected to bring a single athlete, while Simon Gama, who is also from Bulawayo is bringing 10 athletes, while five athletes from Manicaland have confirmed their participation. Mr Novice is for first timers who are in need for exposure to the big stage.