The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — Kaizer Chiefs Zimbabwean attacker Khama Billiat looks to have shrugged off an injury he sustained in the Soweto Derby, as Amakhosi return to DStv South African Premiership football action this weekend. As revealed by head coach Stuart Baxter after the derby against Orlando Pirates, the former Zimbabwean international picked up a hamstring injury, but is now training with his teammates ahead of the league match against Golden Arrows at FNB Stadium tomorrow. It’s a big boost for Amakhosi, who still believe that the club has a shot at catching Premiership leaders Mamelodi Sundowns. With Billiat in attack, Chiefs can cause loads of problems for an Arrows side which has the fourth worst defensive record in the league this season. Arrows have conceded 25 goals in 20 matches, with Baroka FC, Chippa United and TS Galaxy letting in more than the Durban-based side. Amakhosi, though, are expected to be without goalkeeper Brandon Petersen. The former Ajax Cape Town and Bidvest Wits goalkeeper has torn an abdonimal muscle and a decision will be made on who starts in goal in his absence. Meanwhile, SuperSport United’s Zimbabwean coach Kaitano Tembo took plenty of positives from his side’s 3-2 defeat to Orlando Pirates on Wednesday. Tembo’s side surged into a 2-0 lead but Kegan Johannes gave away two penalties in quick succession on the stroke of half-time, which Deon Hotto converted before Goodman Mosele stole all three points in the last minute of the match to break Matsatsantsa hearts. Despite Johannes — one of his youngsters — being exposed, Tembo said it will always be the club’s philosophy to blood young talent. The Matsatsantsa mentor was proud of his players and especially of their start to the match. “We were very positive. We pressed high and forced them to make mistakes. Scored two well-deserved goals. But you know sometimes when decisions don’t go your way. Some decisions allow your opponent to come back into the game. And it made difficult for us. I think we deserved something. We could have done better defensively. But I’m proud of the guys. When they came in they did very well. “It’s normal. When you take that route there is going to be mistakes here and there. But we’ve got to believe in their ability. Because they don’t improve if you don’t play them. That’s why we play them so they get better. That’s very important for us. So we’ll keep on giving them the opportunity. For me I’m quite proud of the guys. “Look for me I look at the performance. I think the guys played very well. There were a lot of positives. A lot of takeout’s from this game. That was key. We wanted to win. It didn’t but we move on. I think if we play the way we played today we will win more games than we lose.” — Soccer Laduma/KickOff