The Herald AUGUSTA. —Tiger Woods has confirmed he plans to play the 150th Open Championship at St Andrews in July. Woods spoke of his intentions after completing 72 holes at the Masters golf tournament in his first competitive appearance since a life-threatening car crash last year. The 46-year-old American won two of his three Opens at the historic Scottish links, which he described as his “favourite golf course in the world”. “I’m looking forward to St Andrews. I will be there,” he told Sky Sports. “That is something that is near and dear to my heart. I’ve won two Opens there, it’s the home of golf.” Woods, a 15-time major champion, suffered serious injuries when he crashed his car while speeding in Los Angeles. There were also fears his right leg might need amputating following the single vehicle incident in February 2021. He defied the odds to return to the Masters this week, despite being unsure three weeks ago if he was fit enough to walk the hilly terrain at Augusta National. After announcing on Tuesday he would play, Woods shot a one-under par 71 on Thursday amid celebratory scenes. A round of 74 on Friday ensured he would make the weekend cut, although he eventually finished 13 over par after two 78s. But Woods said he was still undecided about next month’s second men’s major of the year, the US PGA Championship at Southern Hills, from May 19-22. Asked about his upcoming plans, Woods added: “I won’t be playing a full schedule ever again. It will just be the big events.” The look on Woods’ face as he walked off the 18th green told you all you need to know about what he’s been through in the last 14 months. Woods had just shot his second consecutive round of 78, which is the worst score he’s ever made in the 24 years he’s been playing here, and done it on a day that seemed tailor-made for going low. The round left him 13 over par for the tournament, and 22 shots off Scottie Scheffler’s lead, in 47th place. And despite it all, he was grinning like he’d just won the tournament. He clearly wasn’t exaggerating when he said he wasn’t sure whether his injuries would ever allow him to play competitive golf again. “It was an unbelievable feeling,” Woods said when he was back in Butler Cabin. “I wasn’t exactly playing my best out there, but just to have the support out there and the appreciation from all the fans, I don’t think words can really describe it, given where I was a little over a year ago, and what my prospects were at that time. To end up here, and to be able to play in all four rounds, even a month ago I didn’t know if I could pull this off. “ Woods described his comeback as one of the greatest achievements of his career. “Without a doubt.” Woods’ perspective on the game is understandably different these days. His priorities seem to have been reshaped by his near-death experience in that car crash outside Los Angeles, by his first hours in the hospital afterwards, when there was a genuine possibility that they were going to have to amputate his right leg, and by the countless hours of gruelling rehabilitation he has done. “I’m just thankful, I keep saying it, but I am. I really am. I truly am. Just to get to this point. Just to be able to play,” he said. He wasn’t the only one, the game, the fans, even his fellow players, were glad to have him back too. Woods got a standing ovation when he reached each of the last nine tees, when he walked on to the 18th green, and when he walked off it again. The bridge on to the 12th belongs to Ben Hogan, and the bridge off the 13th to Byron Nelson, the crossing over the pond on the 15th is Gene Sarazen’s, but these last few days Woods has seemed to own every other part of this course. They should call it Tiger’s place. — BBC Sport.