The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Youth Interactive Sports Reporter SIMBA Bhora coach Arthur “Tuts” Tutani says it will not be a revenge mission when they face Herentals Under-20 side in the Axis Solutions Super 8 Cup semi-final at Morris Depot this afternoon. The much-travelled coach believes it will just be a normal game and will have no hard feelings towards the log leaders who defeated them in the first leg of the league 2-0 at the same venue. Simba Bhora and Herentals Under-20 are the pacesetters in the ZIFA Northern Region Division One League and will meet in the semi-final of the knockout tournament that began during the mid-season break. “The game will be like any other game which we will treat with caution, and I hope we will have a good outing. The team has been working hard at training and the boys are looking forward to the game. We have a clean bill of health and we cannot complain much about the rains which spent the better part of the day affecting Shamva on Wednesday as we had trained in the morning. “We need to win the game as it will show us where we stand as a team in the league race. Also winning a silverware in our maiden season in the Division One League will bring excitement to both the technical team and the players. “We were defeated in the first match but that is part of football and we have since rectified our errors as we have had several friendly matches which helped us assess our weaknesses,” said Tutani. Herentals under-20 coach Paul Benza believes they have a chance and will welcome any result. “We are looking forward to the game and we are ready for Simba Bhora. They are a good side as their performances can show. “We have a good side which we are developing and everyone is ready for the match. It is good that the game will be at Morris which is sometimes our fortress as we are still to lose there. “We are not going to look much in the previous game as this is a completely new game. As a Cup game we will take it as a final and we will try to attack from the onset. Simba went through to the semi-finals after they got the better of Chegutu Pirates 4-0 while Herentals Under-20 dismissed Black Mambas 4-3 in penalty shootouts. The games continue this weekend with Golden eagles dating Trojan Stars before a long break as the final will be played at the end of the season. In the first leg the much-anticipated top-of-the-table clash saw the Students outplaying the Shamva-based outfit whose defence was at fault for both goals as Herentals Under-20 got their first goal through Silas Azeti. Simba could not come out of their shell despite veteran Hardlife Zvirekwi showing moments of brilliance. Meanwhile BN Academy will be expected to defend their title, in the Under-21 Challenge Soccer Tournament which will be held at Prince Edward Grounds today and tomorrow. The tournament is growing in leaps and bounds as they have managed to secure a sponsor — Click ‘n’ Pay — who will provide trophies and medals. Bekhimpilo Nyoni the league chairman said they will hold the 2022 tournament this weekend with the Under-15 tournament set for today and Under-21 on tomorrow. “We are going to have the Harare Province Under-15 and Under-21 League tournaments at Prince Edward Grounds on today and tomorrow. The tournament will have eight teams namely BN Academy, Prime Rangers, DC Academy, Effenberg, Sportsville, Friendly Academy, Cranborne and Chitungwiza Academy. “We are pleased that we now have a partner who has come on board in Click “n Pay who will provide us with trophies and medals. We will have many individual accolades like player, goalkeeper and top goal scorer of the tournament. “The tournament will help grassroots development which is the core business of academies and we are grateful that we have managed to lure some corporates who have entrusted us with their brand. We are expecting some Premiership coaches to grace the tournament as we have some youngsters who has potential and need exposure,” said Nyoni. The league which gives a chance to academies was last won by BN Academy who got the better of Friendly Academy 5-4 on penalties after they had settled for a nil-all draw in regulation time. Prime Rangers coach Godfrey Moyo believes they have a chance to improve after last year’s tournament. “We are looking forward to the game and we hope we will do better than last year. We are very happy with the tournament as it gives an opportunity to young players who we are grooming. “We had a running league and I think we are ready for the games,” said Moyo.