The Herald Crime Reporter Citizens have been warned against boarding unregistered vehicles as more people continue to lose cash and other valuables to robbers pretending to be ordinary motorists looking to supplement their earnings through ferrying travellers from one point to the other. In some of the cases, knives were used by the criminals who were using unregistered vehicles. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi said;  “The ZRP is warning members of the public against boarding unmarked, unregistered pirate taxis and kombis. On April 5, 2022, police in Avondale recorded a robbery when a 21-year-old woman lost property valued at US$800 after boarding an unregistered blue Honda Fit vehicle at corner of Simon Muzenda Street and Samora Machel Avenue destined for Greendale.  Along the way, the two occupants diverted route and stole her property.” In another case that occurred on the same day at about 8.35pm, a 31-year-old victim lost property worth US$1 093 to three unknown suspects after boarding a purple, unmarked Honda Fit vehicle along Leopold Takawira Street in Harare that was destined for Avondale. Along the way, the suspects threatened the complainant with a knife while demanding cash. On April 5 again, police in Mabelreign recorded a robbery case where a woman (28) lost property valued at US$310 after boarding an unmarked black Honda Fit vehicle with four occupants at corner of Leopold Takawira Street and Samora Machel Avenue destined for Westgate. “Along the way, the suspects produced a knife before ordering the complainants to abide by their demands,” said Asst Comm Nyathi. Recently, police in Harare launched a manhunt for armed robbers who picked up five passengers on separate occasions using a silver Toyota Altezza (AFR 1689) and then robbed them at knife point of cash and valuables worth US$2 501. The robberies occurred in Braeside, Greendale and Marlborough. Meanwhile, police have confirmed the arrest of John Mhere (34), Lungisani Ndlovu (36), Mpumelelo Ndlovu (19) and Mpilo Ndlovu (19) in connection with a robbery case which occurred on March 22 at a house in Wilsgroove Cement Side, Bulawayo. The suspects, together with two others who are still at large, attacked two complainants with spears, axes and machetes before the victims raised alarm. Neighbours apprehended one suspect.