The Herald LONDON. — Manchester United have reportedly reached a “verbal agreement in principle” for Erik ten Hag to become their next manager. United say no deal has been done but sources in the Netherlands suggest an agreement in principle is in place. The Dutchman, 52, will replace Ralf Rangnick, who was appointed interim manager in November following Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s dismissal. The Dutchman, who is currently at Ajax, has emerged as the favourite to take over from interim manager Rangnick. He is said to have impressed Old Trafford chiefs with his vision for the club. And it seems that the move has almost been completed, according to a fresh report. Paris St-Germain’s former Tottenham boss Mauricio Pochettino had been the other leading candidate. The Athletic’s David Ornstein has claimed that United have reached a “verbal agreement in principle” with Ten Hag to become manager. All that remains is for the Red Devils need to negotiate a compensation package with Ajax. United have reportedly agreed a four-year contract with Ten Hag, which will begin in the summer when interim boss Ralf Rangnick moves upstairs in his advisory role. An official announcement is expected to be made after the Dutch Cup Final with PSV on Sunday. Ten Hag (52) has recently been questioned about his future — even though Ajax have banned English journalists speaking to the manager. And it appears he has grown fed up of it too — warning press to stop focusing on off-pitch matters. Ten Hag told ESPN: “We are busy with training and with the matches. “That way you keep the focus on it. I want to talk about the game and not about other things and whether or not I’ve had conversations. I won’t comment on rumours. “Questions about the game or I am going inside.” Ten Hag has previously played down speculation he is preparing to move to Old Trafford by denying he is practising his English for a new role. But he has been an overwhelming favourite with the bookies after overtaking Mauricio Pochettino in the running, with betting now suspended on him taking over. There has even been talk of who his assistant might be with Steve McClaren and Robin van Persie two names linked. United will be relieved when Ten Hag’s appointment is made official, on what is expected to be a three-year contract with the option of an additional year. It will bring a sense of certainty to a club whose season is slipping away alarmingly as Rangnick wrestles with a mounting number of problems. Amid numerous suggestions of splits in the dressing room, United now seem unlikely to secure a place in next season’s Champions League after a run of one win in seven games in all competitions, their worst sequence of results since 2019. With many big-name players either out of contract, such as Paul Pogba and Jesse Lingard, or facing uncertain futures, like Cristiano Ronaldo and Marcus Rashford, it promises to be a summer of upheaval at Old Trafford. It has been felt Ten Hag’s management style is more suited to the structures put in place at United, which include John Murtough as football director. Ten Hag will become the fifth permanent manager at Old Trafford since Sir Alex Ferguson’s retirement in 2013. — The Sun.