The Herald Business Reporter The Zimbabwe Commercial Rabbit Breeders Association (ZICORBA) will host its inaugural Rabbit Cook-off event in Bulawayo this month as the organisation accelerates its campaign to popularise rabbit meat, top official has said. Secretary general, Siphosethu Ncube-Moyo, said the event, which will be held on April 9, 2022 at Bulawayo’s popular pub and grill restaurant Tin Cup, will attract the who’s who in the culinary industry. “Our marketing team conducted a survey on the consumption of rabbit meat in Bulawayo, which showed that people were interested in preparing rabbit meat dishes but lacked knowledge of how to do so. “The rabbit Cook-Off event is meant to showcase the many ways rabbit meat can be prepared and enjoyed. It is also meant to create industry partnerships, promote and popularise consumption of rabbit meat,” Mrs Ncube- Moyo said. She added that: “Seven professional chefs from leading local hotels will be preparing various rabbit dishes which will be scored by a panel of judges. Each contestant will prepare a 3 course meal using the main ingredient, rabbit meat. We hope the competition will stimulate rabbit meat uptake within the communities by showcasing the diverse and tasty rabbit meat recipe”. Ms Stella Nkomo, the deputy chief executive of the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) will be the guest judge supported by hotel industry veterans Chef Brighton Nekatambe and Chef Dayne Pigors. Judges will critique each competitor on plate presentation, creativity, and product taste amongst other things. Chef Brighton Nekatambe also known as Chef Nekaz is a multi award winner, having participated in various international food expos and competitions including Italy, Turkey and SA, among other countries. Chef Dayne Pigors has vast experience in the industry, having worked at high-end hotels and restaurants in South East Asia, Australia and the United Kingdom, to mention but a few. He runs the Bulawayo-based Plate Catering Company and a wedding venue, The Barn. Chef Pigors said he was enthused to be part of the event. “I am excited to see the use and creativity of the ingredient rabbit meat by local chefs. I have used it and served it a number of times in my history and find it very appetising,” he said. TV presenter and news anchor Arthur Evans will be the master of ceremonies at the event, where guests will be treated to a wonderful gourmet tasty menu, snack buffet, wine pairing done by Rwendo Wines and live entertainment by a top Zimbabwean artist. ZICORBA marketing and publicity secretary for the Bulawayo region, Ratidzo Chiwombe, said the response to the event was overwhelming. “The response to the event has surpassed our expectations such that we plan to host it every four months and make the Cook-Off a signature event in Zimbabwe’s culinary industry.”