The Herald Robson Sharuko-H-Metro Editor IN more ways than one, it felt like a homecoming show for him – after all this was the same province where his professional journey started. The one that would take him from playing for a Chegutu club, bankrolled by the local cotton industry, to being on the payroll of a Manchester club, powered by the power of oil dollars. This was his proper unveiling ceremony. An introduction to the fans, and the community, in this mining town, which is probably the richest settlement perched in a rural setting, in this country. In terms of opponents, for this special occasion, the football gods could not have chosen a better or more appropriate team. For some reason, it had to be Dynamos. The gold standard bearers of success in domestic football, with record league titles to show, for their 59 years of existence. For these resurgent Glamour Boys, it was another trip to a place that reminds them of what they could have been, had their house been an oasis of order rather than a haven of chaos. Like the hosts, DeMbare could have been proud owners of their own stadium, like the hosts, the Harare giants could have been a magnet which attracts, and captures, corporate support. The arrival of Sakunda Holdings has significantly changed everything and, with plans for them to lease Rufaro now firmly in the pipeline, the Glamour Boys will argue they are now on the right track. They looked like a proper football club on Saturday, their away white kit, probably the best of the lot they recently received from their sponsors, was a reminder that times have changed. But, this wasn’t their special occasion. It was Benjani Mwaruwari’s special occasion, his homecoming show. His first home match in charge of Ngezi, in the stadium he now calls home, in the province, which he used to call home, and in the country, which will always be his home. Baobab has not been kind to DeMbare, since Ngezi Platinum arrived in the domestic Premiership, it’s a place where they seemingly develop an allergy to winning, once they run into that stadium. So, from the word go, their chances of winning were very limited, history was their enemy, Benjani was their human barrier and, even though there was a spring in their step, their body language was not pregnant with confidence. It didn’t help either side that strong winds made life difficult for the players. And, even for a speed merchant like Bill Antonio, the compactness of Baobab presented a different challenge, especially to a player who thrives in the comfort of the wide spaces. As the game entered into its final phase, it became clear that there was too much familiarity, between both sets of players, they appeared to even read the joker which the opponent was about to throw. So, in a way, it wasn’t a surprise it ended goalless but that’s not for lack of trying because Denver Mukamba tried to provide the breakthrough and, at times, he appeared to be even overdoing it, in what was a relentless pursuit of heroism. Tymon Mvula doesn’t have the colourful personality of Gift Muzadzi or the imposing frame of George Chigova. But, there is no doubt he is a good ‘keeper and, while his low-key character means he hasn’t attracted the media hype his performance should have guaranteed, he is making a difference at the Glamour Boys. His point-blank save from Mukamba, in a face-to-face confrontation deep in the second half, probably secured the point while he could read the threat from the forward’s curling balls swung in from corner kicks. Tonderai Ndiraya has the institutional memory to remember that the greatest Dynamos teams of the past, especially those which were assembled by Sunday Chidzambwa, were built on a foundation of a punishing defence. In Frank Makarati, Ndiraya appears to have found a leader of men, at the back, a central defensive warrior who takes no prisoners. The coach, and his defender, used to call Baobab their home. It now belongs to Benjani, the one they call the Undertaker, who is taking his baby steps in this brutal and unforgiving profession called football coaching. Dressed in a blue business suit, with a matching shirt and tie, Benjani sent a clear message that he was at work and his mission was to make a difference at Ngezi Platinum Stars. He largely kept his emotions in check and the only wild reaction from him came when the referee, who otherwise had a fine afternoon, waved away appeals for what looked like a stonewall penalty for the hosts, in the dying stages of the game. His substitutes all had an impact in the game, which was a huge plus for him, and for the better part of the second half, they appeared the only team likely to win the match. “For me, the most important thing today was the clean sheet,” he told The Herald. “Dynamos have been scoring in almost every match, in recent games, and for us to stop them from doing so was a good sign. “Yes, on the balance of what we created in the second half, we should have won but that’s football, when you don’t win, make sure you don’t lose. “I’m still new here and things take a bit of time to settle but I’m happy with what I’m seeing and time will tell but we are confident in ourselves.” There was no burial at Baobab on Saturday for the Undertaker to perform but, in terms of homecoming shows, it couldn’t have gone any better. The good and lively crowd, something which the Premiership had been missing, provided the motion picture soundtracks for a grand occasion. Welcome back home Benjie.