The Herald Talent Gore Youth Interactive Writer Suicide among students has raised concerns about a mental health crisis that is tearing through tertiary institutions in Zimbabwe. However, different organisations are going around in school raising awareness in schools. The Hope Resurrect Trust recently visited Queen Elizabeth High School to educate students on what mental health entails. The global Covid-19 pandemic has affected the mental health of students in higher education institutions across the world, including Africa, with a reported rise in anxiety and depression, according to an article published on 4 May 2021 in The Conversation. In the last few months of 2021, one student at the Harare Polytechnic College and two at the Great Zimbabwe University committed suicide. Earlier in the same year, two students at the National University of Science and Technology (NUST) took their own lives. Relationship problems reportedly played a role in some of the incidents. An Upper Six student at Queen Elizabeth School, Kundai Muromo, said that understanding the causes these suicide cases should be the first step. “Depression and mental health issues are very real. They are happening to most of us. I know many who are suffering from depression,” she said. “We should find the root cause. Does it have to do with school pressure? And then, after investigating and finding the root cause, we should proffer solutions and maybe come up with a campaign to help address the issue.” Muromo said as pupils they were grateful that there were people who were coming to their school to teach them about mental health. “We had a mental health workshop with the Hope Resurrect Trust. It was so beneficial to us as we learnt what mental wellness is. Some of the things that we learnt we didn’t even know about them,” she said. “As pupils we are glad that we get to have these sessions because they teach us of the real things that are happening in the country, especially among the youths. Mental wellness is the inability to cope with emotions  and is caused by pressures from society, and also by comparing oneself to other people. It is very important for people, especially the youths, to stop comparing themselves with others. “Parents and families should play a pivotal role to make sure that their children stay sane. The minute parents join in the bandwagon and start judging their kids, everything becomes hard for them. She added: “This may also lead suicidal thoughts, so it is very important that if you feel you are depressed and your mental health is not okay, talk to someone, talk to your teachers and even a stranger just to let things off your chest. Iit really helps a lot because a problem shared is a problem solved.” Another pupil, Lynn Butete, who is in Form Four, said schools must provide counselling to pupils. “As pupils we really learned a lot and we hope to take what we learned to the world and impact someone. As it stands, many school hildren like ourselves are committing suicide and its very worrying,” she said. “I think schools and universities should provide counselling because some of us are suffering but we really don’t know who to confide in or talk to. “Hopefully these mental health workshops will continue in schools.” Speaking after the workshop, Hope Resurrect Trust director, Florence Mudzingwa, said they would expand their mental health workshop to other schools. “With everything going on in the country right now and also because of the global pandemic, we saw it fit as Hope Resurrect Trust to talk and seize the future because you know students face a lot of struggles, depression, suicidal thoughts as a result of the pressures of the world,” she said. “So it is our endeavour that we teach about mental health, to bring awareness to communities and schools as well. “It’s not just a day thing ,we are going to continue conducting these workshops at more schools.”