The Herald Samuel Musipa and Makare Benson Beloved Youth Interactive Writers The roadmap to transform the Midlands State University into a replica of Garden of Eden simultaneously burning the candle on both sides in keeping it tidy, is irreversible. The Midlands State University Environmental Society is advocating and preaching the gospel of green economy as well as creating a five star environment. The years 2019 until the exodus of 2021, the Midlands State University Environmental Society (MSUES) group under the reign of the charismatic leader Chiristabel Mhiribidi were punctuated by positive results yielded within the programme. The MSUES managed to acquire 50 trees from different species including acacia, Cyprus beef wood and Brazilian paper from the forestry commission and managed to plant 20 acacia alongside China Road from the main gate. The programme on the other hand managed to attend the club fair in Zvishavane Campus that was organised by the SRC and student development office. It managed to recruit 75 members which precipitated the formation of MSUES group two. The MSUES created cordial relations with non profit organisations such as  ZELA, Forestry Commission, EMA and Vital Recycling where cross pollination of ideas broadens the knowledge of the students and benefits them immensely as far as environmental issues are concerned. Throughout engagements with these organisations, the MSUES was inspired by Vital Recycling to start a waste management project off the campus. The MSUES basket contains multitudes of students who would like to be included in the environmental pie regardless of faculties and an ample evidence is of a connoisseur in law, by Blessed Marecha, who is enjoying the experience. The nucleus of the MSUES is to beautify the campus, planting trees is a death certificate of climate change as trees helps to sequestrate carbon dioxide and an increment in water vapour on the other side the MSUES embark on clean up campaigns as a way to keep the environment clean. The MSUES is a social club that seeks to promote environmental sustainability both on and off campus through action, research and awareness. The club is also involved in clean up campaigns, education awareness both on and offline on topical environmental issues and tree planting initiatives. The waves do not diminish at the campus only but as the MSUES we preach and teach, the gospel of green economy is sprouting and mushrooming in the communities,educating as well as leading by example. On the social media platforms we have a plethora of meetings which we partake, for example quiz, discussions and hob nobbing. All these help increating a mental atmosphere within the Midlands State University Environmental Society. As we crept into the year 2022 the charismatic president, Christabel Bella handed over the stick to the whizkid Chigara Vimbainashe as it is enshrined in the MSUES constitution and by now, he is the one who is stirring the MSUES pot. Recently in mid March, the club spearheaded a club fair at the main campus where it recruited 68 new club members. There are many obstacles which are being encountered within the MSUES such as weak financial muscles to suffice the projects and the running of the club. Over the past few years, the funds were in a pathetic state and the members of the club had to fork out money from their pockets in a bid to keep the MSUES’ heart beating. The COVID 19 pandemic was so vicious as it rewound the society clock backwards, but the club managed to survive as the executive introduced interactive sessions on topical environmental issues ranging from quiz sessions with prices, debate sessions among others. Students did not find enough time to embark on physical meetings with members failing to pay subscriptions and so on, but we managed to push through the pain, we bounced back and none of the challenges hammered the nails of the Environmental Society coffin. The MSUES purse is greased by its members through payments of subscriptions every semester and on the other hand selling MSUES brand products which have an environmental society logo as well as the university logo as another panacea, all thanks to #KIKINGS powered by Keith Chikumbu. The proposed plans which the MSUES are eagle-eyeing are, to start waste management project on campus and later extend to off-campus to the buffer zones. The income generated is going to be used to meet the demands of the club and fund its initiatives.