The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter Harare City……………………………………(0) 1 Tenax………………………………………….(0) 1 PREMIERSHIP débutantes Tenax picked a crucial point on the road when they held hosts Harare City in a Castle Lager Premiership at the National Sports Stadium yesterday. The Mutare correctional officers side, which beat giants CAPS United and ZPC Kariba in their previous two matches, appeared headed for another victory after they scored first in the 51st minute through Panashe Mutasa, who capitalised on a lapse of concentration by the Sunshine Boys. The goal was the first shot on target from Tenax after surviving a first-half siege from Harare City who, however, were wasteful in front of goal. The Sunshine Boys eventually equalised in the 72nd minute through Wilfred Muvirimi. Nonetheless, Tenax coach Shadreck Magurasave was happy with the away point. “I am really happy with the team’s performance since we are a small team which was in Division One. In the first half they created a lot of chances, they could have punished us but we resisted, and at the end of the day I am happy “We are still trying to adjust to Premiership football,” said Mugurasave. Tenax have now gone for three games without tasting defeat, a statistical quark that will boost them as they push for survival in the big boys’ league. Harare City coach Taurayi Mangwiro also welcomed the home draw as his team had lost in their last two outings. “Considering where we are coming from, I think it’s a handy point. It should help us going forward. The sad thing about us is we play very well, create numerous scoring opportunities but at the same time lack goals. “Today we came up against a team that sat back, probed, got numerous chances against the run of play, and they scored.  It is good that we rescued a point, it could have been worse. The way we defend as a team remains a big challenge to us. But I am happy with the way the team is playing. Hopefully, one of these days we will be able to bury these chances and also keep a clean sheet,” said Mangwiro. Teams Harare City: Kelvin Shangiwa, Donald Dzvinyai, Donald Mudadi, Hastings Chapusha, Innocent Zambezi, Tellmore Pio (Emmanuel Ziocha 57min) Spencer Masunda, Emmanuel Mandiranga (Wilfred Muvirimi 60min) Jerry Chipangura (Tatenda Tumba 60min), Collin Mujuru, Clive Rupiya (Zorodzai Semura 78min). Tenax: Philip Makumi, Pascal Shumbaimwe, Dexter Marara, Joseph Jambo, Tafadzwa Zhakata (David Chirandu 83min) Lancelot Chakuamba, Carlos Musimwa, Simon Munemero, Panashe Mtasa (Aristol Manyamba 66min), Joel Munsaka (Pritchard Masawi 87min), Takunda Mapara (Wirimai Mukudo 66 min).