The Herald LIVERPOOL. — It was an open-and-shut case for many, including his manager. Mohamed Salah was, it was declared on an almost weekly basis, the best football player in the world for the first half of this season, demonstrating the kind of elite-level scoring form only Lionel Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo and more recently Robert Lewandowski have been able to produce this century. It wasn’t just the volume of goals — 22 in his first 23 matches — that he was putting away for Liverpool. It was the sheer quality of them that took one’s breath away. None more so than the weaving solo effort he conjured up against Manchester City at Anfield in October, midway through a run of 10 straight games when he scored, that surely will go down as the English Premier League’s goal of the season. “Come on,” Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp asked out loud, “who is better than him?” Fast forward six months and Salah is, in relative terms, in a rut. Indeed, heading into a seismic return match against Manchester City on Sunday that could yet determine the destination of the English Premiership title, there’s an argument to say he might not even be Klopp’s go-to striker. There are potentially a whole host of reasons why Salah is going through his worst scoring run this season, with no goals in five games in all competitions and no open-play goals in six weeks. Is he tired? He’s already played 47 games this season, after all. Are painful losses for Egypt lingering? First there was the penalty-shootout loss to Liverpool teammate Sadio Mane’s Senegal in the African Cup of Nations final in February, then a loss — also via a shootout — to the same opponent in a World Cup playoff last month. Does it have anything to do with his current contract standoff with Liverpool? That would be unlikely. Maybe it’s simply the vagaries of form and happenstance. Because he’s still piling up the chances, just not converting them. Whatever it is, this is not the Salah of six months ago. He was substituted midway through the second half in each of Liverpool’s last two games after, by his high standards, fairly underwhelming performances. “Sometimes he could decide in a better way, no doubt about that, pass the ball quicker and all these things,” Klopp said this week. “But it’s a tough period for Sadio (Mane) and Mo, with the Africa Cup and coming back being immediately available for us again with all the games. “It’s completely normal in a season that you have these little (ups and downs).” Will Klopp drop Salah against City on Sunday? He’d be a brave man to do that to the Premier League’s top scorer. But it’s not that he doesn’t have options. And in Diogo Jota, Klopp has a forward who has helped to take on Liverpool’s scoring burden firstly while Salah was away at the African Cup and then amid the Egyptian’s recent struggles. Jota appears to be Liverpool’s first-choice centre forward now, displacing Roberto Firmino by doing all the dirty work like the Brazilian — the tracking back, the pressing, the harrying of defenders — but scoring a lot more goals at the same time. — AFP.