The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter GIANTS Dynamos say they are already looking forward to their next assignment against Benjani Mwaruwari’s Ngezi Platinum Stars as they are set to travel outside the capital for the first time in over a month for a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match this coming weekend. The trip to Baobab is likely to be a good test for the Glamour Boys who have had a fine run of five straight wins in the last month. Dynamos have played their last four matches at the National Sports Stadium and have succeeded in claiming maximum points. This has helped shape an impressive turnaround for Tonderai Ndiraya’s side, that had a lukewarm start to the marathon, which was dominated by Manica Diamonds and Chicken Inn at the early stages. And following their 2-1 win over resilient Black Rhinos at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday, Ndiraya hinted they have a big test in their hands as they look to play outside Harare for the first time in over a month. DeMbare have experienced mixed fortunes on the road this season. They have managed to collect four points from a possible nine outside Harare following the defeat to Triangle, the draw at FC Platinum and the win over Bulawayo Chiefs on their last away trip on March 5. “Of course, the next game is a big one. It’s a huge challenge; we are going away to Ngezi Platinum Stars. We also want to test ourselves if we can get more points on the road. “The last time we were on the road we collected maximum points at Bulawayo Chiefs. I hope we can do that again when we play Ngezi Platinum,” said Ndiraya. Ndiraya has a hint of what to expect from their ambitious hosts as he once had a stint in Mhondoro as the Ngezi Platinum Stars head coach between 2016 and 2018. The team is now under the tutelage of former Zimbabwe captain Benjani “The Undertaker” Mwaruwari, who kicked off his tenure with a 1-1 draw away to Bulawayo Chiefs at the weekend. The draw helped them maintain their place in a tight top five. Ngezi Platinum is the first senior club football coaching job for Mwaruwari. It still remains to be seen whether he will be able to pull the club up after the team had experienced a mixed bag of results since the departure of former coach Rodwell Dhlakama. Ngezi Platinum Stars currently have 16 points from 10 games. Dynamos, on the other hand, moved to 22 points following Sunday’s win over Rhinos. They slashed the gap between them and log leaders Chicken Inn to just one point after Joey Antipas’ men dropped points at home in the top-of-the-table clash against Manica Diamonds. The match ended in a thrilling 3-3 draw and, after 10 games, Chicken Inn have 23 points. They are followed by Dynamos (22), Triangle on 20 following their goalless home draw against Highlanders To page 13