The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo-Senior Arts Reporter There has been an entirely new generation of people who are taking the fashion sector by storm both locally and those in the diaspora. From the brains behind big local name labels like Ric Chasers, Coco Tapfumaneyi, Hollywood Lee, Chenna Neni to up and coming ones who are forging their own paths, some have never been heralded. Some local fashion icons and enthusiasts have bemoaned the lack of support from corporate world, media and arts promoters as they usually focus on one genre in the arts — music. They cited their exclusion in the planning of the industry, but this has not stopped them from pursuing their dreams. United Kingdom-based Zimbabwean fashion stylist and blogger, Aquilla Muzah (23), who rose to fame in 2019 after taking the social media by storm with her stylist antics, has shared her story after creating a name for herself in the entertainment industry. The former model, better known as “Aquibae” on social media, said aspiring fashion buffs should capitalise on their fame to sustain their livelihoods. Muzah said next month she will be launching her styling brand, which will help the local celebrities on how to wear for occasions. During an interview with The Herald Arts she said she was now focusing more on investing back home. “I have been in the business for a couple of years and it has not been a walk in the park. “One of the biggest challenges I have noticed is that if you don’t have a brand name. It is difficult to penetrate, but it is now high time to take advantage of social media. “It is now long overdue as I have been focusing on working with the diaspora market and it is now high time I focus back home. I won’t be relocating though, but will be working from this side and since I have created a brand and a team they will be assisting me.” Muzah said her ambition was to inspire other young women, not only in academics. “I came to join my mother in 2010 who was already in the United Kingdom and to also pursue my education. “My mother gave me the courage to pursue my dream. I started working in the healthcare sector as a support worker up to today. “Life has been a roller-coaster ride. It’s not as easy as one would think, but somehow I have been managing. My story will change the girl child perspective. Fashion is my passion. “I feel like fashion has always been part of my DNA, having been inspired and influenced by some of the television icons I grew up watching. I want to change the local industry.” Muzah said she had a keen eye on fashion and what was trending. “Due to economic challenges, it also pushed my creative side to sprout out, enabling me to make the basic outfits look expensive and trendy,” she said. Asked who her role model was, Muzah said; “My role model is Anna Wintour, aBritish journalist who was also chief editor of Vogue magazine. “She always has a story to tell and with her the sky is the limit,” she said. “I don’t remember an occasion where she did not dress the part. I want to be able to match and convert local fashion to be recognised and stand out in the first world market place.” The bubbly blogger said with fashion, she was able to express herself. “I want to be a role model to other young women and be able to travel representing other fashion brands,” she said. “My biggest wish is to style popular comedienne Madam Boss because she inspires me a lot. “I also want to meet with various women, especially in the fashion world, matching their standards, as this gives me the extra edge and push I need to accomplish my lifetime goal.”