The Herald Brighton Zhawi Sports Reporter SOUTH Africa A cricket team coach, Malibongwe Maketa, expects a tough series against the Zimbabwe XI side in the limited overs series starting next week at Harare Sports Club. A strong South Africa A team arrived in Harare yesterday for three one-day matches and five T20s against the Zimbabwe XI. The series starts with the one -day matches scheduled for April 25, 27 and 29. The shorter version series then runs from May 2, 4, 7, 8 and 10. “We have got a lot of respect for Zim Cricket and we do foreseeing playing their best possible (squad) with the qualifiers coming up, that’s why we thought we had to bring a formidable team,” said Maketa. His side is rich in experience and class with batsman Heinrich Klaasen captaining a squad that also includes Khaya Zondo, Lutho Simpala, Reeza Hendricks, Andile Phehlukwayo and Theunis de Bruyn amongst players who have earned Proteas caps. “With limited playing opportunities in terms of the South Africa A team, we want to play a lot of cricket to bridge the cap from provincial cricket and international cricket,” said Maketa. “This gives the guys an opportunity to get closer to achieving that goal. “Everyone is motivated to do well, but our core value is to make sure that they contribute towards the team and their personal things will come out positively if they do that. “But we have a motivated side looking forward to play a strong Zim team,” Maketa said. South Africa A captain Klaasen believes South African selectors will be following this series with interest and the onus is on the players to perform. “If you want to play you should be motivated, there is a lot of space up for grabs in the one-day squad. “There is a World Cup around the corner, so if you put in the performances here, the selectors will have another chance to look at you, if you are not worried about that I don’t think you should be playing at this level,” he said. “It’s a big honour for me to captain the side, we are looking forward to playing some good competitive cricket,” said Klaasen. “We have heard they are going to be playing their main side, we have to, hopefully we win all the games. “We are coming here to perform really well, but we know the standard will be high,” said Klaasen. “They (Zimbabwe) have been playing good cricket, (we have) played them before, they are a good side, so coming here we know what we are going to expect. A lot of the guys were here last year as well so we have some information on that…hope to see what the conditions are like and then plan from there. But like I said earlier it will be good competitive cricket.” Meanwhile, Zimbabwe Cricket have named squads for South Africa A series and the side playing Nepal in Kathmandu between April 30 and May 9. Zimbabwe is also set to host Namibia and Afghanistan this winter which will be headlined by the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup Qualifier A in the country between July 11-17. These qualifiers will feature hosts Zimbabwe, Hong Kong, Jersey, the Netherlands, Paula New Guinea, Singapore, Uganda, and the United States of America (USA). The top two finishers will progress to the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup 2022 in Australia The ZC National Selection Panel has named the following squads for the two tours: ZIMBABWE XI Burl Ryan, Chatara Tendai, Chivanga Tanaka, Kaitano Takudzwanashe, Kasuza Kevin, Madhevere Wessly, Masakadza Wellington, Masuku Ernest, Masvaure Prince, Mayavo Nyasha, Mutumbami Richmond, Raza Sikandar, Shumba Milton, Tiripano Donald. ZIMBABWE A Campbell Johnathan, Evans Bradley, Gwandu Trevor, Jongwe Luke, Kaia Innocent, Kaia Roy, Madande Clive, Marumani Tadiwanashe, Masara John, Maunze Kudzai, Mavuta Brandon, Munyonga Tony, Mutombodzi Tinotenda, Nyauchi Victor, Tsiga Tafadzwa.