The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter AFTER making her last appearance in the elite women at the Bonaqua Africa Triathlon Cup over the weekend, Greer Wynn challenged upcoming athletes to work hard if they are to make it to that level. The annual event is held at the Troutbeck Resort in Nyanga and it attracts elite athletes from across the globe. For the 14 years it has been running, several athletes that have competed at the event have went on to compete at the Olympic Games. Wynn was the only representative in the elite women and the hosts Zimbabwe had no representative in the elite men. Several juniors competed in the Junior Africa Cup and Wynn said there is room for improvement from the upcoming athletes but they would have to work hard to graduate to the elite level. “For the juniors I just want to say one positive criticism with them, they need to train harder. There needs to be more depth, they need to really get their teeth stuck into it if they want to compete with this lot, these internationals. “So they need to put more work in, especially the bike,” said Wynn. The 46-year-old, who was competing in her last race at the elite level, said she is now looking at taking part in the Ironman events in South Africa and cycling. “This was my last elite appearance because this elite business is another ball game since I am racing ladies now 20 years younger than me. “So 20-year gap is a lot to ask for. It’s time, mentally now to move forward to longer distances which I suit, the Half Ironman and the standard distance because I have got the endurance. “Actually road-cycling is my strength, so I am considering doing elite ladies for road cycling in Johannesburg at the 94.7 . . . So I have come from a cycling background, so I know what’s expected there and I can hope for a top 10 in the elite ladies race,” said Wynn. Despite missing a podium finish, the 46-year-old was content with her performance as she competed with younger athletes. Event director, Rick Fulton, said it was a privilege to have had another successful edition of the Bonaqua Africa Triathlon Cup considering last year’s circumstances that saw them moving the event to September due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Last year we were genuinely shattered because of the circumstances that we found ourselves postponing the event from February to September and then we were obviously asked to put on the 2022 event. “So I just have to say in comparison to this time in September which was a very harrowing time for us because of the pandemic and the circumstances we were operating under it has been an absolute privilege to be able to put this event on,” said Fulton. There was an improved turnout for this year’s edition. Zimbabwe shift their focus to the Africa Championships due to take place in Agadir, Morocco, from September 23 to 25. Triathlon Zimbabwe are expected to announce the team for the continental event in due course.