The Herald Nelson Smitt Since the launch of the Russian special military operation in Ukraine, western media has come out of its sell, lying about everything, all to try to paint Russia as rogue state and President Putin as a war monger. The anti Russia lies have been told again and again and yet the truth is too difficult to hide. Russia has genuine reasons to launch the special military operation. The west and its ally the United States triggered the conflict by confusing Ukraine’s comic president into a real life tragicomedy. Being used to drama Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky might have not seen the serious consequences of the Russian military operation that he now faces. That western journalism is fake, racist and malignant has become more clear with the coverage of the Russia/Ukraine war. The narrative of the conflict has been brazenly twisted. The truth has been thrown out via the window. Journalistic ethics no longer exist. Evil has taken over good. Reasoning has disappeared. Fairness is no longer in their vocabulary and yet they want to lecture good journalism to other regions. Foetid! Suddenly western media has thrown away the water bucket with the child. They no longer want to hold their leaders accountable for their actions. Instead of questioning Zelensky’s wisdom in abandoning the Minsky Agreement, they urge him to confront mighty Russia. Instead of questioning Ukraine’s Neo-Nazi trajectory, they urge Zelensky on. Instead of questioning Joe Biden’s corruption in Ukraine and the US government’s funding of biological laboratories in Ukraine and Africa, they are busy lying to the world. Instead of questioning how Hunter Biden got top positions in Ukrainian companies and how he used his father, Joe’s influence first as Vice President and second as President to cut millions of dollars of biological laboratories funding deals, they concentrate on the negative of Russia. Instead of questioning the logic behind pumping millions of dollars of taxpayer’s money into Ukraine as military aide, they concentrate on trivia. That is mad media. The western media is mad. The editors are mad, too. They are unthinking. It is now an open secret that “Hunter Biden’s Rosemont Seneca investment fund financed the Pentagon’s military biological programme in Ukraine. This fact has not been denied. The bio-labs were part of the US plot to study the natural immunity of certain populations to identify the most dangerous pathogen for people in their region. Once that is found, they could wipe out an entire population with biological warfare. Reporters immediately dug into their copies of Biden’s laptop, supposedly left behind for repair in a Delaware shop in April 2019, and dredged up emails that they suggested validated the reports that Biden indeed corruptly cut deals in Ukraine. There are several layers to this story, so let’s peel the onion. There is a US led project, known as the Cooperative Threat Reduction Programme to trick former Soviet republics into allowing US to transform old labs which had once been integrated into the Soviet Union into state-of-the-art biological research facilities. Various American companies received contracts from the Pentagon to do that work. One of those subcontractors — is Metabiota, led by Hunter Biden— did some work in Ukraine. That firm received an investment from a private equity firm associated with Hunter Biden. A trove of e-mails on Hunter Biden’s infamous laptop— the existence of which was exclusively reported by The Post in October 2020 — found that he played a role in helping a California defence contractor analyse killer diseases and bio weapons in Ukraine. So, behind the double-standard coverage is the condescending mind-set and the penetration of Western-centrism in their journalism industry, which views the Western countries “more civilised” than the rest of the world. If people take a closer look at the Western coverage on the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict, they can easily see racial prejudice and double standards; practices that Western media have often scoffed at. “These are not refugees from Syria, these are refugees from Ukraine . . . They’re Christian, they’re white, they’re very similar (to us),” Kelly Cobiella, an NBC News correspondent based in London, recently said on video. Since the onset of the conflict, such remarks of a racist nature have been circulating on Western media. When numerous journalists have focused on the look, skin colour, race and religion of Ukrainian evacuees, and made a comparison between them and refugees from the Middle East and North Africa, their unspoken implication is that the former are superior to the latter and have less reason to suffer from any plight. Behind the double-standard coverage is the condescending mind-set and the penetration of Western-centrism in their journalism industry, which views the Western countries “more civilised” than the rest of the world. The US is always preaching others on human rights and civil rights, and chanting such slogans as “all men are created equal,” the United States and its allies, however, have long been holding double standards and racist bias. A basic rule of journalism is to be sensitive to victims’ feelings when reporting on any tragedy, but in fact, some in the West just associate the need of comfort to people’s race. As Andrew Mitrovica, an Al Jazeera columnist who had previously worked at several Western news organisations, has criticised, “editorial staff shaped institution-wide editorial policies that, in effect, established who and what kind of ‘victims’ warrant sympathy and attention and who and what kind of ‘victims’ do not.” “While the invasion of Iraq by the United States was considered a liberation, the operation taken by Russia is seen as a cut-throat invasion in the eyes of the Western media,” Egyptian professor and writer Azza Radwan Sedky wrote in an article published on Ahram Online, the English news website of Egypt’s Al-Ahram newspaper. Moreover, while the Russia-Ukraine conflict is under the spotlight, the sufferings of people in such countries as Iraq and Afghanistan, both invaded by the United States, are receiving less coverage by Western media. Obviously, Western media have been posting contradictory narratives on similar situations, with the difference hinging on their own interest and calculation, rather than professional ethics or responsibilities. That is why they have called the US-launched wars in Iraq and Afghanistan as “a liberation” and an “anti-terror” fight. Facing a conflict, media outlets are expected to play a role in bridging understanding gaps and promoting peace, in addition to providing information and documenting what is going on. Unfortunately, some Western media’s deeds have run counter to these aims, which only tarnished their reputation and credibility, and exposed their hypocrisy and racist bias The western media should be judged for abusing its power and failing to hold US president Joe Biden and his son Hunter accountable. Nelson Smitt is a professor of political science in Berlin, Germany