The Herald Gibson Nyikadzino
Herald Correspondent
China’s President Xi Jinping has invited all countries to join his proposed Global Security Initiative focusing on six key areas to deal with growing threats posed by unilateralism, hegemony and power politics. China said the initiative is about having international affairs addressed through consultation and the future of the world decided by everyone working together. In his Thursday speech via video at the opening ceremony of Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference 2022 in south China’s Hainan Province, President Xi said because of the increasing deficit in peace, security, trust and governance, mankind is facing more and more intractable problems and security threats. The six areas the initiative champions include the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, and the principle of indivisible security. President Xi noted that through this initiative, if the world joins hands and never slacken in efforts, the world will be able to build great synergy through win-win cooperation, overcome the various challenges along the way, and usher in a brighter and better future for humanity. “China will unswervingly follow the path of peaceful development, and always be a builder of world peace, a contributor to global development, and a defender of the international order,” President Xi said. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said because China put forward this major initiative, the Asian giant will also take earnest actions in its implementation. “We are ready to work through the United Nations and bilateral and multilateral channels to have in-depth exchange of views with all parties on the initiative so that we can inspire each other, pool global synergy, follow through on the initiative,” Wang said. The international community has also recognised the Global Security Initiative as the correct path to multilateralism. Vice president of the China Institute of International Studies Liu Qing said the initiative put forward by President Xi systematically explains China’s solutions to global security dilemmas. Bambang Suryono, chairman of the Indonesian think tank Asia Innovation Study Centre, said unlike some Western countries’ unbalanced pursuit of their own security, the proposed Global Security Initiative seeks common security and is conducive to building an international order based on mutual respect, equality and mutual trust. The chief executive officer of the Asian Institute of Eco-civilisation Research and Development, Shakeel Ramay, said if the world wants to build a new security framework that is fairer and more equitable, it should act on the Global Security Initiative.