The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter CHAPUNGU Queens were the biggest winners in the opening week of the Zimbabwe Women’s Soccer League with a 26-0 victory over Scorpion Queens at Pfupajena Stadium over the weekend. The women’s league that was last played in 2019 due to Covid-19 finally returned. And it was goals galore as teams posted rugby-like scorelines. Although the league got off to a slow start with three of the fixtures failing to get underway, the day belonged to Chapungu Queens who ran riot against Scorpion Queens away at Pfupajena. The match between Yadah Queens and Borrow Jets had to be postponed after the venue of the game clashed with a men’s football match. The match between Correctional Queens and Chipembere Queens had to be canceled after a number of Chipembere players tested Covid-19 positive. The match between Faith Drive Academy and Hearts of Oak also had to be cancelled after Hearts of Oak quit citing financial constraints. The board is expected to deliberate on the matter after they get a report from the club. Chapungu taught Scorpion Queens a football lesson scoring goals for fun with the skipper Natasha Ndowa, Edeline Mtumbami and Vimbai Mharadzi all scoring four goals. The quartet of Theodora Chabika, Felistars Muchekenya, Agnes Amido, and Barbra Manyanga contributed two goals each. Chapungu goalkeeper Patience ‘’Sthethe’’ Moyo was also on target after she converted from the penalty spot. Brenda Sanyama, Dorothy Nyoni, Erita Zvenyika and Florence Tsikwa were also on target as Chapungu ran riot at Pfupajena. By half-time, the visitors had scored 10 goals and they inflicted more harm in the second period. Chapungu coach, Perkins “Yellow” Nyamutamnba, who is also the Mighty Warriors assistant coach, gave five players that graduated from the club’s academy first-team places and they did not disappoint. Rookie Agnes Amido scored a brace on her debut and Brenda Sanyama scored one goal. Nyamutamba said he hopes his troops will continue with their form. “I am delighted that women’s football is back after such a lengthy layoff. The girls played well and I hope we will carry on from where we left,” he said. The Air Force of Zimbabwe side will not celebrate for too long as they prepare for their second match against Black Mambas at Manyame Air Base on Thursday. Elsewhere, defending champions Black Rhinos Queens also got off to a flying start with a 7-0 victory against Conduit Academy at 2 Brigade. The army side got their goals from Privilege Mupeti, who scored a brace, while forwards Christabel Katona and Rutendo Makore and midfielders, Mavis Chirandu, Grater Bhadhe, and Felistas Muzongondi scored a goal each. At the National Sports Stadium B arena, Rosemary Mugadza’s Harare City Queens demolished Mutare City Rovers 7-0.  Veteran Aldiglade Bhamu grabbed a hat-trick while Sithembiso Kazingizi scored a brace. Cynthia Shonga and Amanda Five provided a goal each. Visiting Herentals made light work of Midlands State University at Wilson Fields and MacAdam with a 5-0 victory. Praynence Zvawanda scored two goals and Tabeth Mutinhiri, Nyasha Munemo and Melanda Rungu scored a goal each. Results Harare City Queens 7, Mutare City Rovers 0; Black Rhinos 7, Conduit Academy 0; MSU Queens FC 0, Herentals Queens 5; Scorpion Queens FC 0, Chapungu Queens 26.