The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo-Senior Arts Reporter Organisers of the first edition of the musical fiesta dubbed “Dope Party”, have said all is set for the celebrations this weekend at Rainbow Towers, Harare and BAC Leisure Centre in Bulawayo. The party, which is held as part of the first anniversary for More Life Entertainment, will run for two days at the two locations. The headline act is South African- based rapper Focalistic, who will share the stage with Zimdancehall musicians such as Winky D, Enzo Ishall, Killer T, South African-based Zimbabwean Buffalo Souljah, King 98, Stunner, Ba Troy, Sandra Ndebele and a variety of disc jockeys. The event will see socialite Fally Ipupa (Jnr) as one of the hosts. In an interview, organiser of the show and businessman Letmore Mbidzo said everything was in place for the event. “Preparations are at an advanced stage for the Dope Party. Remember, it was scheduled to have held last year during the festive season, but was affected by the Covid-19 restrictions and regulations. “We are happy we are still sticking to the plan and we have the same line up and all artistes have been fully paid. The event will run under the Covid-19 regulations and restrictions because nothing has changed on that subject. People still need to be careful.” Mbidzo said the two-day celebration will see a strong line-up of artistes sharing the stage. “We are starting with Harare and we are expecting a huge turnout. “The line-up is more of the same with the Bulawayo edition. We have done our best to market the event and all roads lead to Rainbow Towers. “Right now we are on the last hurdle, checking on all points and if there are any loopholes we need to rectify. We have been planning for this show for months, so we need to avoid any mistakes and do our best.” Mbidzo said they were setting the stage by Thursday and starting rehearsals with some artistes. “South African star Focalistic will jet into the country on Saturday morning for a press conference and sound check. “Some acts have already agreed to start the rehearsal and check on the stage settings starting this Saturday. We are hoping for the best this weekend. Tickets have already started selling.” Mbidzo said this year would have more shows to promote brands. “We have been busy hosting shows in South Africa where we invited locals to take part, but this year we are changing the game and we want to penetrate the local sector,. “So far so good and we already have the line-up. We will share more details as we progress.” Mbidzo urged and encouraged local promoters to unite for the betterment of the sector. “What I have learnt from the foreign land when it comes to showbiz and promoting of events is unity,” he said. “We don’t need to compete with each other, rather complement each other for the betterment of the sector to grow.”