The Herald Crime Reporter SEVERAL passengers and motorists lost their cash, cars and various goods to armed robbers since last week in separate incidents while a motorcycle belonging to Government was stolen at a clinic in Shamva as crimes of concern continue to increase countrywide. Most of the passengers were robbed after being offered lifts in and around the city. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi confirmed the incidents. “On April 23, 2022, police in Shamva recorded a case of theft of a motorbike registration number GHCC 2083 belonging to the Ministry of Health and Child Care. “An unknown suspect cut the fence of Wadzanai Clinic, Shamva and stole the motorcycle. Anyone with information to contact any nearest Police Station.” Meanwhile, police have reiterated that members of the public must avoid boarding mushikashika vehicles or using their private vehicles as pirate taxis as they risk falling prey to robbers. This comes after on April 22, 2022, a 25-year-old Harare man lost property valued at US$750 after boarding a grey Toyota Wish vehicle with two occupants at Mbudzi roundabout destined for the CBD. Along the way, the robbers produced an unidentified pistol and a knife before they stole his property. “On April 22, 2022 again, a complainant aged 37 lost property worth US$893 to four robbers after boarding a black Toyota Wish at Puma Service Station in Zengeza going to the city centre. The suspects later parked the vehicle at Hunyani Bridge and threatened the victim with knives,” Asst Comm Nyathi said. In a related incident, on April 21, a motorist driving a Honda Fit vehicle along Liberation Legacy Way lost property valued at US$300 after picking four passengers. The suspects grabbed the victim from behind and threatened him with a knife before robbing him. On the same date at around 1pm, another motorist driving a Honda Fit vehicle along Chitungwiza Road lost US$2 500 cash and other valuables all valued at US$3 000 after parking the vehicle near Zororo Cemetery to relieve himself. Two robbers emerged from the tall grass and threatened the complainant with an unidentified pistol before handcuffing him. The robbers took control of the vehicle and later left the victim locked inside his car after undressing him and took his clothes. On Saturday, police in Braeside recovered a red Nissan X-trail (ACS 9383) that was dumped at a car park near Gain Supermarket in Graniteside area, Harare. Police noticed a knife which was on the driver’s seat, the car keys on the ignition and some bloodstains on the passenger’s seat. The vehicle had not been reported stolen by the time it was recovered. Meanwhile, police have confirmed the arrest of Tavonga Cliff Sauti (19) in connection with a case of theft of a Toyota Wish vehicle (AFC 4814) which occurred at corner Quendon and Sherwood Roads in Harare on Saturday at about 11.30pm. The suspect together with three other suspects who are still at large were offered a lift in the vehicle before Sauti jumped onto the steering after the driver had gone out of the car to look for more passengers. The complainant managed to pursue the suspects using another vehicle leading to the arrest of Sauti as the other suspects fled.