The Herald LONDON. —  Cristiano Ronaldo has  hit back at former team-mate Wayne Rooney after he suggested his time at Manchester United is up. Rooney discussed Ronaldo’s impact at United on Sky Sports’ Monday Night Football, suggesting his return to Old Trafford has not been a success. The Derby boss also advised his former club to change approach and play with young, hungry players rather than Ronaldo. In response to Rooney sharing a photo from MNF on Instagram Ronaldo commented “Two jealous” alongside an eyes emoji. It’s possible CR7’s comment may have been tongue in cheek and simply poking fun at his friend. When asked if Ronaldo’s signing has worked out for United, Rooney said: “You’d have to say no, at the minute. “I think he’s scored goals, he’s scored important goals in the Champions League early on in the season. He scored the hat-trick against Tottenham. “But I think if you look to the future of the club you would have to go with younger, hungry players to do the best to lift Manchester United over these next two, three years. “And obviously Cristiano is getting on a bit. He certainly isn’t the player he was when he was in his 20s. And that happens, that’s football. “He’s a goal threat but I think the rest of the game they need more, they need young, hungry players.” It seems a great number of fans back Ronaldo over Rooney however, with the forward’s comment gaining 60 000 likes on Instagram. The Portuguese has scored 18 goals since his return including vital winners to get United through to the Champions League knock-out stages. He also scored a brilliant hat-trick against Tottenham last month in a decisive game in the race to finish in the top four this season. And in fact, the Red Devils have failed to win a single league game this season when Ronaldo has been unavailable. Rooney, meanwhile, left United aged 32 and although he is the club’s record goalscorer he has been overshadowed by Ronaldo. The former striker was one of the most talented players of his generation and little separated him and Ronaldo while they played together at Old Trafford. But Ronaldo pushed on at Real Madrid scoring 450 goals for the club and winning the Champions League four times as well as the Ballon d’Or on five occasions. Rooney revealed he and Ronaldo would often play pranks on team-mates and Sir Alex Ferguson together.– BBC