The Herald Miriam Kwari Your Health Your Wealth Hello friends. I welcome you all again to another edition of “Your Health is Your Wealth” with me, your favourite herbalist Nyasha. Today I have got quite a meaty discussion prepared for you. As always, I urge you to give me a call so that we can talk Graviola, herbs and ensuring that you are building the healthiest version of yourself through your food. Baobab The mighty baobab is the most extraordinary tree in the world! Its massive trunk of more than 20 metres in circumference is often hollowed out and used for all sorts of storage and even living spaces.
But most valuable of all, the hollow trunk can hold well over 1 000 litres of water within it and that, in our hot and dry country, is like gold. Wherever the baobab grows it acts as a valuable source of food, of medicine and even of income to the local people. The entire tree is utilised as food, medicine and rich extraordinary oil is found within the seeds. The baobabs great silent presence is both calming and inspiring, and its magnificence is unsurpassed. Using the baobab Rich in nutrients, the young leaves can be cooked to make spinach –type dish that is energy rich and clears the systems of toxins. The dry, powder pulp inside the hard pods is acidic and easily dissolved in the mouth and can be made into a pleasant drink. The oil is rich in vitamin D, the omega -3,6 and 9 fatty acids, oleic acid, palmitic acid and linoleic acid and is excellent as a moisturiser for treating skin complaints, psoriasis, eczema, skin cancers, diabetic ulcers and slow healing leg and dry skin because baobab oil literally rejuvenates.
It is easily absorbed by the skin and can be rubbed directly onto the area, massaged in and it leaves no oily residue. Add it to creams, to lotions, to the bath and to your hair conditioner for lustrous shining hair.
Traditionally, baobab leaves, bark, and seeds have been used to treat “almost any disease,” including malaria, tuberculosis, fever, microbial infections, diarrhoea, anaemia, toothache, and dysentery. Nutrition The pulp of the baobab fruit contains: ◆Vitamin C ◆ Calcium ◆ Phosphorus ◆ Carbohydrates ◆ Fibre ◆ Potassium ◆ Protein ◆ Lipids The pulp can be used to add flavour to dishes and in juices.
The seeds contain: ◆ Phosphorus ◆ Magnesium ◆ Zinc ◆ Sodium ◆ Iron ◆ Manganese ◆ Lysine ◆ Thiamine ◆ Calcium May promote weight loss
Yes really! Let’s emphasise the following point: Baobab is made from 50 percent natural fibres. Natural fibres are not only of great importance for the health of our digestive system, but they have also been shown to be essential for making you feel full. Indeed, this ability to provide this feeling of satiety makes baobab fruit an excellent ally for weight loss, especially by helping to reduce the consumption of food during meals. Lowers blood pressure Let us introduce another key mineral found in baobab powder: potassium.
As organic facts mentions, potassium is another important constituent of baobab, known for its benefits for heart health. This incredible mineral is adept at freeing the cardio vascular system by dilating blood vessels and arteries, increasing blood flow and preventing the heart from working too hard. Isn’t it amazing that a single fruit can do all of this?
Well here you go folks, it’s time for you to get off your bottoms and get yourself some baobab powder. All you need to do is make some tasty baobab juice and some of benefits listed above might just help you live a sweeter life. May God continue to provide you all with good health and sustenance. Till next time. ◆ Miriam Kwari is a herbalist and can be contacted on 0773378571 and hmsherbals@gmail.com 