The Herald Ray Bande in Mutare STOCKY Tenax CS striker Malvin ‘’Agogo’’ Dumbura failed to make his dream move to CAPS United some two years ago after the two teams could not agree on a transfer fee, and when the two sides clash on Sunday in a Castle Lager Premiership football match at Sakubva, the 31-year-old player says he wants to prove he still has what the Green Machine wanted in him back then. CAPS United make a sensational return to the Mutare football match venue where they recently suffered a 2-6 humiliation at the hands of Manica Diamonds. There could have been a small number of fans at Sakubva to witness the final embers of the embarrassment unfolding when the once feared Green Machine were hammered 6-2 by Manica Diamonds, but the reverberation of that famous defeat was far reaching. This time around the Green Machine will be looking to redeem themselves against lowly Tenax CS. Far from that forgettable outing by CAPS United, Dumbura believes his team is ready for Sunday’s tie. “I think it is going to be an exciting encounter. We all know that CAPS United have moved on after the heavy defeat to Manica Diamonds and that means we have to be at our all-time best to beat them. We are ready for that match and I have no doubt we will give it our best shot. After all, we knew from the onset of the season that at some point we will play against some of these big brands in the top-flight,” said Dumbura. The heavily-built forward, who recently became a subject of ridicule mainly in social media circles because of his weight, once impressed the Lloyd Chitembwe-led technical department when he went for trials at the Green Machine, but somehow the two clubs failed to agree terms on the player’s transfer fee. Gifted with the ability to harass defenders and laying the ball for his fellow strikers, Dumbura thinks their opponents on Sunday would be more venomous as a way to erase the sad memories of the epic defeat against Manica Diamonds. “It is obvious that they (CAPS United) would want to prove to their fans in Mutare that the heavy defeat was a mistake and it’s water under the bridge for them. This makes the match on Sunday a bit trickier for us. However, mentally we are prepared for that. We have done our homework and all we want is to make sure that we collect maximum points given that we will be playing before our home crowd,” said Dumbura. So much has changed since CAPS United suffered that heavy defeat to Manica Diamonds at Sakubva. Since then, the Green Machine have been firing from all cylinders, managing to beat hapless Hwahwa by almost the same margin they conceded at Sakubva before dismissing Yadah Stars. Chitembwe’s men then outplayed Herentals during last weekend’s round of league matches. And Dumbura understands that Chitembwe would not want to have their recent unbeaten run go up in smoke so soon. “It is obvious that CAPS United would want to extend their unbeaten run. They are on fire and have been collecting maximum points in the previous three rounds of league matches. They would not want their rhythm disturbed. This makes the match a bit tricky for us but we will not read too much into that. We will troop into Sakubva on Sunday with one thing in mind and that is to win,” he said. Tenax CS come into Sunday’s match after posting a surprise away triumph over ZPC Kariba at Nyamhunga and Dumbura said his team wants to build on that achievement as well. “We did well to outplay ZPC Kariba in their own backyard and therefore the mission on Sunday is to ensure that we continue with our good form. We would really want to make our fans at home be confident with us. That is the only way we can have more fans coming to watch our matches. I just want to urge more fans to come and watch us. All I can promise them is that we will not disappoint them,” said Dumbura. Meanwhile, veteran football administrator Cecilia “Sisi’’ Gambe has urged football teams in Mutare to improve on their management of turnstiles, especially when facing big teams such as CAPS United. Fans in Mutare have been having a torrid time to gain entrance into the match venue as the main two home teams — Manica Diamonds and Tenax CS — have often opened only one gate for walk-in fans and the other for vehicles. “We really have to be sensible and learn from our mistakes. Fans are not happy at all with the way gates are being managed. The home teams are creating unnecessary pressure at the gates. “We wonder why they are not opening all the entry points in time so that fans do not have hustles to pay their way in. This must improve as soon as yesterday,” said Gambe.