The Herald Carl Maswoswa-Youth Interactive Local author Edith Nyaradzai Emmah Kasukuwere affectionately known as Coach Emmah launched five books – the first pentagon which is on sale internationally and locally. The book addresses the five critical areas in people’s daily lives; health and wellness, mental health, business, relationships and spirituality. The books are “Kingdom Woman Speak”, “Amy”, “Impairment Diaries”, “Behind The Desk” and “Mindset”. Aged 25 years, Coach Emmah puts herself in the history books after the late Patson Dzamara who launched five books in 2014. Book publishing seems to be an uncommon area to some upcoming authors. It takes comprehensive research and navigating the avenues for one to go through the process smoothly. Seeking mentorship and guidance from those who have gone ahead of you is very important. This is just the beginning as she plans to write more. Emmah is a rehabilitation technician, counsellor, life coach, mentor, blogger, author and founder of Coach Emmah Incorporation — a company which aims at providing coaching, mentoring and rehabilitation services for youth and individuals with disabilities. The launch was held at Jairos Jiri Vocational Training Centre in Bulawayo last month and was attended by the prolific Dr  Phillip Kundeni Chidavaenzi, the founder of Royalty Books as well as the editor, panellists; coach Mama Lyn Chidavaenzi, Fortune Munsaka, Pastor Anele Chirume and grand master coach Blessing Duri was the guest speaker. The event was staged under the theme, ‘promoting a sound reading culture and allowing inclusive development and participation.’ In an interview, coach Emmah said her writing journey is emotional and owes her success to God. “ I took 18 months to craft the master pieces. It was not an easy journey as I was going through a rough patch though I fought victoriously through the impediments,” she said. “I am a symbol of the mantra, ‘the future is female. My stories involve a lot of teary moments when you go through them. They are based on real life situation and I thank God for my success.” She said writing is her passion. “I am not stopping anytime soon, I believe I am still a work in progress and continuing to work through the process will help me become well versed with the writing process in order to help others succeed too,” said coach Emmah. The bubbly writer gives credit to her family. “I want to thank my family for being with me through the journey. Special mention goes to goes to the International Coaching and Mentoring Foundation team and its founder grand master coach Duri for taking me through as a coach and moulding me into the person and author l have become,” she said. Coach Emmah has always been sceptical about friendships but God led her to friends who never expected anything in return, more of divine helpers and they ended up becoming family. Her list of connections continues to grow through the writing process and she is grateful to God for all the people who walked with her through the journey. On the book “Kingdom Woman Speak”, it is about the Christian women who are learning to navigate life and adapting to changing situations. “It speaks of rising from being inferior to becoming a person of influence. While “Amy” is a short novel speaking of a pattern in most families where children are being raised by single parents. Abuse is usually hidden when it involves family and this then makes it easier for children to grow up with the right attitude to family ties,” she said. Her third book; “Behind The Desk”, speaks about women in different walks and spheres of life going through various issues. Shedding more light on what they are facing and what as a society should also do to help bring change. On “Impairment Diaries”, it relates to disabilities and inclusion in society. It highlights the main areas and conditions affecting persons with disabilities and helps the society see how best they can bring about change in the way we view and work with persons with disabilities. The last book “Mindset” is a valuable tool for someone desiring to write a success story. It has relatable issues that help one navigate through business and being an entrepreneur. It is also a tool for one who seeks guidance to have a clear direction in their journey.