The Herald Business Reporter Diversified food manufacturing company, Associated Foods of Zimbabwe (AFZ) has seen its growth strategy, spurred by Government’s policy thrust on import substitution, recognised after landing the Most Improved Manufacturer of the Year 2021 Award at a colourful Buy Zimbabwe 2021 awards ceremony held in Harare recently. AFZ is a leading manufacturer and distributor of spreads, preserves and snacks, canned fruits and tomatoes, and canned fruits and vegetable paste. Over the past three years, AFZ has been on a growth trajectory introducing a number of new product lines, which include baked beans, cornflakes, snacks and diabetic Jams. Buoyed by the Buy Zimbabwe award and the Government’s pledge to increase support to the local manufacturing industry in order to boost production, AFZ’s sales and marketing executive, Mercy Kunaka said the company was further “looking to implement new initiatives and products that will cater for both the local and international markets”. “We would like to thank Buy Zimbabwe for recognising us as the Most Improved Manufacturer for the Year 2021. Last year we were second runner up for Manufacturer of the Year 2020 so this is a great achievement for us,” said Ms Kunaka. Zimbabwe’s manufacturing policy has been inclined towards import substitution executed through tariffs on final products and exemptions on key inputs, as well as discretionary import licensing and the local content strategy. AFZ’s main input materials are agro-based and as such the company is actively involved in agriculture running out-grower schemes for its much needed raw materials. To guarantee sufficient throughput, AFZ is currently running out-grower schemes for tomatoes and intends to establish groundnut out-grower schemes this year. In terms of food safety, a major area of concern for the food industry and to adhere to international best standards, AFZ has also implemented ISO2200 certification and are now focusing on attaining the FSSC22000 certification which is a Global Food Safety Initiative recognised global food safety standard. “We hope to not only service the local market but to spread our footprint in the region and beyond and this led to us to attain the ISO22000 certification in 2018. “The ISO 22 000 certification was adopted to enhance conformity to international standards with an eye on the export market. The certification not only provides assurance of product quality but also gives (our) brands a better competitive edge in both local and export markets,” said Ms Kunaka. Globally, an estimated 600 million – almost 1 in 10 people — fall ill after eating contaminated food and 420 000 die every year, resulting in the loss of 33 million healthy life years. More than 50 local companies were honoured at the Buy Zimbabwe awards for promoting growth and local competitiveness. Buy Zimbabwe is the prime and preferred competitive driver of quality Zimbabwean products and services keen on fostering the consumption of local content and broadening the local marketing to reach world class standards.