The Herald Ivan Zhakata-Arts Correspondent FASHION designer and artist Fungai Muzoroza held her first solo art exhibition at Artillery Gallery titled “The Braided Birthmark”, which explored cultural identities through hairstyles. Muzoroza showcased an array of artworks made of acrylic and digital on vinyl which paid homage to braided identities by intertwining different fashion techniques. The auspicious exhibition was attended by art enthusiasts from all walks of life including businessman Chamu Chiwanza and musician Tahle we Dzinza. It was complemented by a fashion show, while craft works and food and drinks complemented by classical music characterised the event. Muzoroza said the exhibition was inspired by her cast mates from the Battle of Ankara which took place in Cape Town, South Africa, early this month. “The exhibition came about in different ways,” she said. “I have always wanted to do this exhibition, but I think what really pushed me to do this exhibition was me doing the show in Cape Town at the Battle of the Ankara and being around other contestants, seeing their techniques and hearing their stories. “It made me want to create a pan-African collection and that is why this exhibition is called The Braided Birthmark because when I think African, I think hair. What most of the images have are long necks and it is a trademark of my works. I wanted to portray the feel of a goddess through my works.” Chiwanza said he was amazed to see the kind of creativity that Zimbabweans in the arts industry had. “This is serious creative art and I am amazed that we have got young and creative Zimbabweans like Fungai who are coming up with world class art,” he said. “This exhibition could have been anywhere in the world. “As business, we need to support our local art and to see that this industry is propelled and is supported financially.” Dr Chiwanza urged artists to take the arts industry seriously and to engage the Government to promote art so that they exhibit at higher levels. Tahle said the exhibition was a different way of carrying local traditional culture forward and having people mingle in a different way. “It was an amazing show and I think it is a beautiful thing to see people mix modernisation with our culture,” she said. “It shows aggression in our music, fashion and poetry. I loved the engagement, the audience and the integration of our traditional drums with classical music.”