The Herald Grace Chingoma-Senior Sports Reporter Yadah…………………………………………(0)1 Triangle………………………………………(1) 1 TRIANGLE coach Jairosi Tapera was satisfied with a point on the road after his troops featured in a draw against hosts Yadah in this Castle Lager Premiership match at the National Sports Stadium yesterday. The visitors got an early goal in the 12th minute through veteran midfielder Russell Madamombe. Yadah equalised in the 79th minute through forward Kudakwashe Mangami, who converted a penalty, after referee Patrick Kalota adjudged that Gerald Bero had handled the ball inside the box. Yadah midfielder Joseph Mutembedza earned the spot-kick with his first touch and the hosts, who were piling on the pressure in search of an equaliser, celebrated wildly. Although Tapera rued the first half chances that were fluffed by his skipper and chief striker Donald Ngoma, he was happy that his troops managed to absorb everything Yadah threw at them. “It’s a very important point away from home considering the way we played. We actually knew these young boys have energy and we knew how they would welcome us. “In the first half, we organised ourselves, got an opportunity, and scored. We had two clear opportunities. Donald could have scored our second goal, and if we had scored, they could have been dead. “They kept on coming, but credit to my boys. They are doing a wonderful job.  We will go home and reflect on what we should have done to avoid conceding a late equalizer. But that’s a game of football, you sometimes get all of those things,” said Tapera. Yadah coach Genesis Mangombe was unhappy with the stalemate. He said his team is creating numerous scoring opportunities but their poor finishing has let them down. “According to our game plan, we had said we don’t need to concede. So it disrupted the boys, especially the youngsters like Tanaka (Gahadzikwa) and (Albert) Manenji. But I am happy during the half time talk they responded very well, and we managed to play in the opponent’s half, and it yielded a goal. “Our substitution was spot on, and he really wanted to score. He did what we had instructed him. But we are lacking that luck, the finishing touch. “We have dominated our opponents in most of the games; we create a lot of chances but our conversion rate is letting us down. If we can convert a lot of chances that we create, we would be happy,” said Mangombe. Both teams earlier had penalty appeals turned down by the referee but in the end, Yadah managed to avoid a defeat at home. Teams: Yadah: P. Nyabunga. B. Kadamanja. L. Mucheto. T. Gahadzikwa (J. Mutembedza 78thmin). R. Matema. C. Mandivei A. Manenji. T. Shandirwa C. Denhere G. Mangani (V. Sango 58th minute). K. Mangami. Triangle: G. Chitsumba J. Mukombwe M. Ngwenya T. Chisi A. Chivheya R. Madamombe (S. Verenga 59min) W. Sande T. Kabanda D. Chirambamurivo G. Bero D. Ngoma (T. Mawarire 90min).