The Herald Danai Chitakasha Special Correspondent AS a football nation, we have every right to be excited. To be excited about the emerging talents of teenage sensations, Bill Antonio of Dynamos and Jayden Bakare of Whawha. Antonio has hogged all the limelight with every journalist worth his or her salt scrambling to write a piece about the young man. Advice to the lad has come from all angles and I understand he has even opened a Twitter account. I am a bit old school like good old Steve Bruce the current manager of West Bromwich Albion in the English Championship football who once asked a genuine question: “Twitter, what is that, is it a bird singing?” I however hope that the account will increase his visibility without distracting him. As for Bakare, being at Whawha has ensured that he has gone about his business far from the madding crowd.  Seven goals in 11 matches for a 19-year-old in his debut season in the Premiership football is enough reason for the nation to be excited. May the rising talents continue to rise! This is the present! What about the past? For indeed we have had many teenage sensations who have come and blown us away with their audacious skills. They took our football world by storm. Some went on to achieve great things and it is to these that I dedicate this article. I will go with 10, my magical number while inviting additions from you dear reader. After a season of scintillating displays in 1990, Ndlovu clinched the prestigious Soccer Star of the Year award at the tender age of 18. He shared the award with bustling striker George Nechironga of CAPS United. In 1991, he repeated the act in the process writing a piece of history for himself by winning the prestigious award for two years on the trot. Soon after that, he left for England where his eye-catching performances earned him the nicknames, “The Flying Elephant” and “The Bulawayo Bullet “. Of course, there is the small matter of his hat-trick for Coventry City against Liverpool at Anfield in the 1994-1995 season, the first by a visiting player since 1961. Ndlovu went on to captain the Zimbabwe national team and also scored some magical goals in the process. The one he scored against South Africa in 1992 was a thing of beauty, it is one of the best ever scored in national colours. Revisit it dear reader, it is well worth the watch. The teenage sensation had become a man and a leader of men! Mparutsa was only 18 in 1981. Lo and behold, in 1982, his performances were so good those who bestow honours agreed that he was the Soccer Star of the Year by the end of the season.  A young goalkeeper, at 19 clinching the prestigious award, that was a piece of history in the Zimbabwean football fraternity. Mparutsa went on to win two more championships with Black Rhinos, numerous trophies and earned many caps at senior national team level.  “The Short Cat” what a goalkeeper! Shambo’s place in Zimbabwean football folklore is cast in stone. “Sinyo”, as he was nicknamed, was a popular figure who went on to captain Black Rhinos with whom he won two league titles.   In 1985 he won a second Soccer Star of the Year award, becoming the second player to win the award twice in their career. He was also capped many times by the Zimbabwe Warriors. His death in a road accident in Swaziland hit me like a ton of bricks, I could not eat for days. I loved “Sinyo” like many also did. He won many trophies and championships with Dynamos in 13 years of dedicated service. In 1994, he clinched the Soccer Star of the Year award. It was indeed higher and still higher for the hard working midfielder. Mucherahowa also played for the senior national team. Moses was a special talent and by the age of 21 he had clinched the Soccer Star of the Year award in 1986.  I think he could have won it earlier but the odd disciplinary issue of red cards torpedoed his chances. He went on to play in Belgium where he earned cult status and also captained the senior national team. Now known as “Bambo”, he is one of the most respected coaches in Zimbabwe who is known for his passionate belief in promoting young players. He is also known for speaking his mind. Fancy an honest opinion on football, then talk to Bambo!# Chimedza later plied his trade in Belgium where he earned rave reviews in the European country with one respected newspaper describing him as “working perfectly between the lines and is a resting point!” The skillful Chimedza also earned 32 caps for Zimbabwe and scored four goals. He had a great career but a nagging knee injury cut short his career. The veteran commentator Mabika waxed lyrical: “Alois Bunjira is making everyone jump here like Kriss Kross!”  This was a reference to that musical group Kriss Kross and their hit song ‘’Jump!’’  Bunira was only 18 and was a schoolboy at Prince Edward High School. His career continued to soar and although he did not win the coveted Soccer star of the Year award, he is one among many teenagers who went on to have great careers. Murisa clinched the coveted Soccer Star of the Year award in 1996.  The respected striker also holds the distinction of having played for the big three — CAPS United, Dynamos and Highlanders. He remains a much-respected figure in our football narrative. Indeed, there are many teenagers who arrived on the football stage, they managed to sustain the act and went on to achieve great things.  This is the challenge that our two teenagers currently, Bill and Jayden, among others, are faced with. Do they have the focus, determination, self-drive and stamina to stay the course and reach the zenith of their careers? Time will tell. I wish them the best! Sisonke.