The Herald LIVERPOOL. — Ralf Rangnick will be thankful he’s only the interim boss of Manchester United. The German (63) boasts the unwanted record of the LOWEST win percentage as United manager in English Premier League football history. Unsurprisingly, it’s Sir Alex Ferguson who tops the list, way ahead of the rest with a staggering 65 percent winning percentage as boss. United have been in decline ever since Fergie left, but even among the failed bosses who followed him, Rangnick is statistically the worst. Saturday’s dire 1-0 defeat to struggling Everton means in 17 English Premier League games at the helm, Rangnick has led United to just eight victories. That’s a win percentage of just 47 percent, with the Red Devils picking up three points in less than half of the league games he has taken charge of. Rangick in fact is the only man to have NOT won at least half of his games in charge. Even Michael Carrick won a game during his brief spell as caretaker manager before Rangnick was appointed. And despite the criticism that was aimed at Jose Mourinho, the Portuguese boss is statistically the second best United manager of the English Premier League era, winning 54 percent of his league games in charge. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer and Louis van Gaal follow — both winning 51 percent of their league games in charge. But Rangnick’s numbers don’t exactly mean the next permanent manager has big shoes to fill. Ajax gaffer Erik ten Hag is the overwhelming favourite to take over from Rangnick in the summer. The 52-year-old impressed club bosses in his interview with Old Trafford chiefs, and is set to beat the likes of Mauricio Pochettino and Luis Enrique to the role. Ten Hag reportedly laid out his vision for United over a five-year period, and has asked to be “100 percent” involved in the club’s transfer business going forward. Meanwhile, Rangnick said Manchester United “do not deserve” to play in the Champions League football next season if they perform how they did against Everton on Saturday for the rest of the season. United lost 1-0 at Goodison Park despite Everton going into the game just a point above the relegation zone. It has harmed United’s chances of finishing in the top four and securing Champions League qualification. The Sun.