The Herald Ray Bande in MUTARE MANICALAND’S flagship Premier Soccer League side, Manica Diamonds, unveiled their new home, away and third kits at a colourful ceremony held in Mutare yesterday. The unveiling ceremony is a culmination of a deal that was signed last year which saw the Gem Boys joining a few teams who are already being supplied with kits by On The Ball through the company’s Looks brand. In his speech during the unveiling ceremony, Manica Diamonds chairman, Masimba Chihowa, applauded the Gem Boys’ principal sponsor, Zimbabwe Consolidated Diamond Company (ZCDC), for going beyond three seasons with the club. Sponsors have been elusive for the game of football in Manicaland with Tanganda Tea Company being the only company that managed to last three seasons sponsoring what still stands as the provinces’ most successful team — the now-defunct Tanganda FC. “I really want to thank our principal sponsor, ZCDC, for standing with the team for the past four years. This is an achievement because no other sponsor has lasted more than that, especially at this highest stage of domestic football. “Most of the sponsors that came through only lasted a season and went away. So that is something we should appreciate,” said Chihowa. The Chancellor Junior School head commended business persons and companies that have supported the team such as Mandel Leisure Centre, Sables Class and Bande, among others. ZCDC chief executive, Mark Mabhudhu, pledged his company’s continued support for the club. “You have been told that I am in a cockpit. When you are in a cockpit you are flying a plane. Therefore, let me take this opportunity to let everyone know that this plane will not fall. “Football is an important aspect of our local development strategy. Football relates to our health as much as it is also business. One day I would want to sit somewhere in Europe watching this team. I am not saying in Africa deliberately because I know this team will be playing in the CAF Champions League next year,” he said. The high quality kits, provided by the Looks brand, widely referred to as the Batman brand owing to its logo which is similar to TV cartoon series Batman, has three different kits, including a gold and black stripe, white and gold stripe and a dark blue and orange stripe. With elongated diamond designs and mountain ranges at the bottom of one of the gold and black kits, the designing has so much artistry relevance to location and funding of the Mutare-based outfit.