The Herald THE Zimbabwe women’s rugby sevens side have been drawn alongside neighbours South Africa and Senegal in Pool A of the Rugby Africa Women’s Sevens to be played in Jemmal, Tunisia, today and tomorrow. The Rugby Africa Women’s Sevens is serving as a qualifier for both the Sevens World Cup to be held in Cape Town, South Africa, from September 9 to 11 and the Commonwealth Games due to take place in Birmingham, UK, from July 29 to 31. South Africa have automatically qualified as hosts but will still battle it out alongside Kenya and other teams for Commonwealth Games qualification. Kenya are the top-ranked team in Pool B alongside Uganda and Zambia while Pool C includes the hosts Tunisia, Ghana and Madagascar The Lady Cheetahs, as the Zimbabwe team is affectionately known, are aiming to finish in the top four after earning their place in the elite field for this competition by virtue of winning the pre-qualifying tournament held in Lesotho in March. Zimbabwe’s co-captains Margaret Magwaro and Lindiwe Munerenyu expressed satisfaction with their team’s preparations which included winning the Zambezi Sevens Challenge on home soil recently. Magwaro said the team, which is currently on a rebuilding phase, will be banking on the young players such as Erika Mack, Robyn Mhembere, Samantha Chirongoma and Ropafadzo Madyah. “We have been preparing since last year, 2021. It’s been a long journey and we feel at this stage it is now the time to represent the country because we have worked for this and yes we did qualify and this is the time. “We have a lot of young blood in the team except for me obviously. So we are confident that the young players will help us with their energy and I think this is the future of rugby if we look at the young ones,” said Magwaro. Zimbabwe are set to take on Senegal and South Africa on the first day today. Team Delight Mukomondo, Erika Mack, Caroline Malenga, Lindiwe Munerenyu, Chiwoniso Mabika, Rumbidzai Chigumbu, Precious Marange, Precious Chirinda, Samantha Chirongoma, Robyn Mhembere, Margaret Magwaro, Ropafadzo Madyah Head Coach: Derek Kwayedza Chiwara. Physiotherapist: Anne Butau. Team Manager: Vivienne Manuel — ZimSportLive