The Herald Walter Nyamukondiwa Kariba Bureau Kariba residents were yesterday forced to risk life and limb by fetching water from the crocodile-infested Lake Kariba following Zesa’s disconnection of the town’s water treatment plants over a $27 million electricity debt. So bad was the situation, coming just as tourists trickled in for the long Easter and Independence holidays. Residents had to walk long distances to the lake to get water. Faced with the dire situation which saw all areas going without water since yesterday morning, Kariba Municipality engaged Zimbabwe Electricity Transmission and Distribution Company (ZETDC) for partial settlement and subsequent payment plan. Kariba Municipality faced a similar situation last year over an $11 million debt that has since ballooned to $27 million. ZESA is owed more than $15 billion by various consumers across the country and has embarked on a disconnection blitz targeting all defaulters. In an interview, Kariba acting town clerk Mr Champion Nyaude said an agreement with the power utility had been sealed and electricity restored to the water treatment and pumping stations. At least $5 million was paid off yesterday through an offset arrangement amounting to $2 million and a cash payment. Mr Nyaude said those in low-lying areas were expected to start getting water yesterday afternoon, while others were to get it by last night and some today. “We engaged ZETDC and managed to strike a deal that resulted in power being restored,” he said. “We paid part of the money and ZETDC cleared part of what they owe us through an offset arrangement.” Mr Nyaude said the terms of the payment plan would not be easy on council following low revenue collection. To that end, he said, residents needed to settle their bills and clear the more than $200 million the Municipality is owed by residents and other ratepayers. Residents made a beeline to the Lake to bath, do some laundry and fetch water to use at home, risking attacks from crocodiles. “This is the Lake Harvest Harbour which is notorious for crocodile attacks. Unfortunately, there is nothing we can do as we need water,” said Mr Learnmore Chitimbe. Another resident, Mr Phillip Chiyangwa, said council should never allow the situation to reach such levels. “They say residents are not paying, but they have to remember that we insisted that the rates hike of more than 500 percent was beyond most residents’ reach, who mostly rely on the Lake for survival,” he said.