The Herald BIRMINGHAM. — Aston Villa manager Steven Gerrard is in real danger of equalling Dean Smith’s record of five-straight defeats in the English Premiership football which cost the latter his job back in November. Current boss Gerrard takes his wounded Villa troops to Leicester City on Saturday hoping to put a stop to four successive losses following concurrent setbacks to West Ham, Arsenal, Wolves and, last time out, Tottenham. Gerrard (41) took charge of a Villa XI vs Brentford B on Good Friday with the likes of Zimbabwean midfielder Marvelous Nakamba, Kortney Hause and Bertrand Traore all in action. Villa won 5-1 with Gerrard using that runout to cast his eye over some of Villa’s young and fringe players ahead of pre-season. Looking ahead to Leicester and the boss will be forced into one change at left-back with Lucas Digne’s season appearing done after he sustained a collarbone injury during the 4-0 defeat to Spurs. Ashley Young will be the favourite to come in at left-back. Elsewhere, Emi Martinez will be between the sticks as he bids for his first clean sheet in five while, ahead of him, Calum Chambers could well come in for Ezri Konsa given the latter’s concerning run of form. Matty Cash and Tyrone Mings are expected to retain their places with Young, as mentioned, at left-back. With Nakamba back after a couple of run-outs, Gerrard could turn to the Zimbabwean to add that bit of steel missing in the heart of Villa’s midfield. John McGinn and Douglas Luiz are expected to keep their places with, perhaps, Jacob Ramsey joining Philippe Coutinho in an advanced position off Villa’s central striker. Both Ollie Watkins and Danny Ings have struggled in recent weeks, meaning it’ll be a toss-up between who’ll get the nod to lead the line at the King Power Stadium on St George’s Day. Here’s our predicted XI. Aston Villa predicted XI vs Leicester City (4-3-2-1): Martinez; Cash, Chambers, Mings, Young; McGinn, Nakamba, Douglas Luiz; Coutinho, Ramsey; Ings. — BirminghamLive.