The Herald Kudzaishe Muhamba Youth Interactive Writer SEVENTEEN-year-old, energetic writer Tafadzwa Jesca Emmah Mususa affectionately known as Grey, is part of Dzimbabwe Traditional Team and has written and recited over 100 poems. She is a true inspiration to young talent as she is educating, instilling principals, empowering and motivating young girls and young women through article writing and poem reciting. Tafadzwa who was born and bred in Muzamani Village under Chief Charumbira in the outskirts of Masvingo City, said her rural background inspired her the most. “I’m a Catholic and also into African traditional religion. I grew to become a ready volunteer in church and earned the respect of peers and elders. “In school I cannot count the responsibilities given to me since primary school,” she said. She said the fact that she served a term as a Junior Councilor testifies to this trend. “The plight of my fellow girl child also planted in me an unquenchable desire for women emancipation. “I vocalise my mind in writing, reciting and I even foresee that in the future I can work in theatre arts,” she said. She added that she has a bold vision to transform the world for the good of women and for the general good. “Currently I am pursuing a Diploma in Religious Studies at Wadzanai Training Centre in Harare. “I am a passionate social worker although I have not accumulated the requisite credentials for social work practice,” she said. Tafadzwa said currently she is working part-time as a family therapist. “I also mentor the young girls in my community to become self-reliant and to confront their life challenges head-on,” she said. Tafadzwa further added that she has a vision to release a 30 debut poem anthropology this year. “The purpose of this release is to create a platform for young girls who are looking down upon the poetry sector and related talents to be groomed because the sky is the only limit for them and also art is life. “Poetry sector is not an easy field. It gets hot and dirty at times but I’m always ready for insults and negative energy that comes in my territory,” she said. “My wish is to stay true to my principles and continue to empower and motivate young girls and young women through my article writing and my poem reciting,” said Tafadzwa.