The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter ZAMBIA’S professional golfers — Sydney Wemba, Gabriel Chibale and Mwaliku Sondashe — are expected to arrive in the country today for the upcoming Harare Classic tournament which will be held at Chapman from April 13 to 15. The returning Harare Classic will have a foreign flavour after Zambian and Malawian professional golfers committed to take part in the event. Malawi will have representatives in Simon Moses, Victor Kachiparongaa and Paul Chidale who are also expected in the country this weekend. After taking part in the last local professional tournament the Arenel Pro-Am where he finished joint second, Wemba will return for the Harare Classic which is a precursor to the country’s flagship event, the Zimbabwe Open, which will be held next month. Wemba will this time be joined by his fellow countrymen Chibale and Sondashe who may pause strong challenge to the local contingent. After going for years without meaningful tournaments, professional golfers are having some tournaments. Julius Kamalizeni, who has been in the golf industry for years, said he is practising for the upcoming tournaments and everything is going according to plan. Kamalizeni, who is supported by Dandemutande, will start his first practice at Chapman on Monday where he is likely to play alongside the  Zambians. “I am looking forward to the tournament and I think I will do well. I will have my first practise at the venue on Monday and Tuesday. “It is our duty to support the local Tour as senior players and I am available for the Harare Classic,” said Kamalizeni. Another local golfer, John Milanzi, said he is happy as a professional as this will give him an opportunity to see how he has progressed ahead of the Zimbabwe Open. “It’s good times for the game after we did not have game-time on the local circuit for sometime. “I am working hard for this one after missing out in Bulawayo and I hope to do my best. “I think my swing is coming up and I expect to do well. Chapman is a challenging course, but I hope to do well as this is a very big event which everyone will be looking forward to,” said Milanzi. Professionals like Robson Chinhoi, who has been making waves in the Safari Tour, are expected to return home for the big event so is Visitor Mapwanya, Biggy Chibvuri, Ryan Cairns and Greg Bentley, among several others, will have an opportunity to play at home.