The Herald PROTEAS wicketkeeper-batter Heinrich Klaasen will lead the South Africa A cricket teams that will take on Zimbabwe XI in eight matches from April 25 to May 10. It will be powerhouse teams that will take on the hosts in the three One-Dayers and five T20s at Harare Sports Club in Harare. The squads are bursting with South Africa’s brightest domestic provincial stars such as Khaya Zondo, Theunis de Bruyn, Prenelan Subrayen, Tony de Zorzi, Gerald Coetzee and Tristan Stubbs, with the biggest drawcard being several members and regulars of the Proteas team like Andile Phehlukwayo, Reeza Hendricks, Bjorn Fortuin, Lutho Sipamla, Lizaad Williams and Ryan Rickelton. CSA convenor of selectors, Victor Mpitsang said: “It’s going to be an exciting few weeks in Harare, the National Selection Panel and I selected our best up and coming players and balanced them with the experience of some of our Proteas to show just how seriously we take this tour. “The CSA High Performance programme is an important part of the organisation’s pipeline and game time is vital for this programme to succeed. “We are really looking forward to watching these matches and seeing what this team of talented players under the leadership of Heinrich Klaasen will bring to the table. “On behalf of the Selectors, I would like to wish Heinrich (Klaasen) and coach, Malibongwe Maketa, all the best for the tour.” Meanwhile, Zimbabwe Cricket (ZC) has confirmed a busy schedule ahead of the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup Qualifier 2022 on home soil, with South Africa A, Namibia and Afghanistan all touring the country for limited-overs series from this April to June. The period also includes an away tour to Nepal. Zimbabwe XI will get the action rolling with three one-day matches and five Twenty20 (T20) games against South Africa A at Harare Sports Club in the capital city from April 25 to May 10. While that series is happening, Zimbabwe A will set off to Nepal for three one-dayers and as many T20s scheduled for April 30-May 9 in Kathmandu. Back home, hot on the heels of the South Africa A tour will be the visit by Namibia, who will face Zimbabwe in five T20 international (T20I) matches set for May 17, 19, 21, 22 and 24 at Queens Sports Club in Bulawayo. That series will be followed by Afghanistan’s arrival for three one-day international (ODI) matches and five T20Is at Harare Sports Club. The ODIs against Afghanistan — scheduled for June 12, 14 and 17 — are part of the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup Super League, a 13-team competition serving as the main route for qualification for the 2023 edition of the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup to be staged in India. The five T20I matches between Zimbabwe and Afghanistan are pencilled in for June 20, 22, 24, 27 and 27, leading up to the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup Qualifier 2022 set for July. South Africa A One-Day Squad Heinrich Klaasen (captain, Momentum Multiply Titans), Ryan Rickelton (Imperial Lions), Reeza Hendricks (Imperial Lions), Tony de Zorzi (Six Gun Grill Western Province), Theunis de Bruyn (Momentum Multiply Titans), Khaya Zondo (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Andile Phehlukwayo (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Lutho Sipamla (Imperial Lions), Bjorn Fortuin (Imperial Lions), Daryn Dupavillon (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Lizaad Williams (Momentum Multiply Titans), Prenelan Subrayen (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Jason Smith (Six Gun Grill Western Province), Lesiba Ngoepe (Gbets Warriors), Gerald Coetzee (ITEC Knights). South Africa A T20 Squad Heinrich Klaasen (captain, Momentum Multiply Titans), Ryan Rickelton (Imperial Lions), Reeza Hendricks (Imperial Lions), Khaya Zondo (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Andile Phehlukwayo (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Lutho Sipamla (Imperial Lions), Bjorn Fortuin (Imperial Lions), Daryn Dupavillon (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Lizaad Williams (Momentum Multiply Titans), Prenelan Subrayen (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Jason Smith (Six Gun Grill Western Province), Lesiba Ngoepe (Gbets Warriors), Gerald Coetzee (ITEC Knights), Tristan Stubbs (Gbets Warriors), Wihan Lubbe (Gbets Warriors). South Africa A schedule against Zimbabwe XI 25 April — 1st One Dayer, 27 April — 2nd One Dayer, 29 April — 3rd One Dayer, 2 May — 1st T20, 4 May — 2nd T20, 6 May — 3rd T20, 9 May — 4th T20, 10 May — 5th T20 — SuperSport.com/Zimbabwe Cricket 