The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter HIGHLY-RATED midfielder Ben Musaka could finally make his eagerly-awaited debut for CAPS United next week as the Easter break has afforded some injured Green Machine players some ample time to fully recover. Makepekepe have never had a full complement of their squad since the beginning of the year owing to injuries. And one of their new signings Musaka, whom they fished from Harare City, has been on the sidelines for nearly a month due to some sprain. Speedy winger Ian Nyoni has also missed Makepekepe’s last three games due to an injury while defender Marshal Machazane, who saw red in their last game against Yadah, was on the sidelines for four weeks as well. But coach Lloyd Chitembwe is expecting to have a full house for his team’s visit to Triangle next weekend, save for the suspended Machazane. Chitembwe told The Herald yesterday the Easter holiday break in top-flight action could be a blessing in disguise for his team. “We have rarely had a full strength team over the past weeks. Unfortunately, in football there is nothing you can do when it comes to injuries. It is something you cannot control when it affects your team,” said Chitembwe. “We have been affected by these injuries. Look, in a football set-up, you need all your players up and running because there are different situations which need different methods and players that is why every coach needs a full complement of his players available. “I am happy though Ian Nyoni and Ben Musaka are up again, training. Actually Nyoni was available for selection in our last game against Yadah and could have played a part but we chose to give him sufficient rest since he was coming from weeks of inactivity. Otherwise he recovered last week and he started full training then. “Ben (Musaka), on the other hand, has been on a long-term lay-off but he is now training with the rest of the squad. He has been training all this week. “I would say this holiday’s break will afford these players some time to fully heal ahead of the fixture resumption next weekend. I am not saying the players we have been having all along are not that good but we certainly need everyone to be available so we can be spoilt for choice.” Musaka is the third player plucked by Makepekepe from Harare City after Machazane and Tatenda Tumba. The former Highlanders midfielder was one of the best performers in the Chibuku Super Cup last year when Harare City was still under the tutelage of Chitembwe. He is one of the main reasons Harare City reached the quarter-finals of the tournament after nailing second spot in a group that had six teams including Dynamos, CAPS United, Yadah, ZPC Kariba and Herentals. Although the municipality side could not make it past Cranborne Bullets, who eliminated them in the last eight, Musaka had distinguished himself as a key figure in the team and he started attracting interest from different clubs, including DeMbare and Highlanders. However, the stocky player decided to settle for Makepekepe where he will find familiar company in the field of play.