The Herald FORMER CAPS United striker, Innocent ‘‘Marobha’’ Mugabe, turns 50 today and as he celebrates his golden jubilee birthday, he has vowed to keep supporting the Mabvuku community in Harare and encourages people across the country to support the youth in any meaningful way. Here, Mugabe, who is now based in Reading, England, speaks to The Herald Sports Editor, Collin Matiza, about his hopes and dreams and how he wants to turn his football project in Mabvuku into one of the best in Zimbabwe… The future belongs to the youth. I always say ‘the young shall grow’ so we need to think about the support we received when we were their age and how we can support today’s young people. I enjoyed playing football in my younger days with lots of kids across Mabvuku and Tafara and although l did my primary education in Greendale at Greengrove School and then at Admiral Tait in Eastlea, it was when l was home from school that l was happiest mixing and mingling with my ghetto friends. We played all sorts of games apart from football – raka raka, dunhu, pada and many others. I got my nickname “Marobha” when I was playing for Tornadoes juniors Under-12s which l was introduced to by Martin Banana, the son of the late former President of Zimbabwe, Canaan Banana, at that time. We used to train outside Rufaro Stadium in Mbare.  Our coach, Stewart, had a friend called Marobha. I impressed him a lot and he started calling his name everytime l got the ball – he would say “wangu Marobha” (my Marobha). After the recent ‘‘Mabvuku Derby’’ where my team Inno Cosmos got the better of Ali Sundowns, whose owner Desmund Ali is known as “The Village Pope”, one local fan gave me the new nickname “The Village King”. Now it’s time to give back to the community to protect it for the future. I started a community project in 2013 using football as a tool. About 100 kids participate in my project each year (and they are) aged between 9 and 23 years of age. I run the BJM Football Academy, which is registered through ZIFA and named after my father, Bob Joshua Mugabe, who was very much involved in football himself. Then l have the ZIFA Northern Region Division Two side called Inno Cosmos. The Academy and Inno Cosmos are both part of the BJM Trust, which is a registered organisation. The BJM Trust is now also launching schools’ clubs in addition to football in Mabvuku with the aim of supporting young peoples’ education as well as introducing them to career opportunities off the football field. We are starting the programme with Tafara High 1 and Tashinga Primary School before hopefully launching it further afield so that more young people can benefit. My main aim is to keep the young people focused after school by engaging with their peers to develop their social skills, psychological strength, a “stay healthy” attitude, enhance their technical skills – but above all have fun. I am working with a large number of people within the community in Mabvuku to get this new programme off the ground and achieve this goal. The football project is rapidly growing. l have managed to get players involved in competitive football in organised leagues. We have Under-10s, 12s, 14s, 16s and 18s playing in The Harare Elite League and Inno Cosmos play in the ZIFA Northern Region Division                                      Two League. So we have a large group of young people engaged in sport and being given a positive focus. The BJM Trust receives support from people all over the world which is fantastic. My wife, Shamiso Memory Mugabe, has been very supportive as have been my three sisters Josephine, Caroline and Nyasha. They attend every match supporting the teams as well as supporting the behind-the-scenes Marketing Department. My niece, lrene, has also been amazing – she is very hands on with the project. My late brother (former CAPS United midfield dynamo), Joe “Kode” Mugabe, pushed me to do well. Joe wanted me to be able to have my own legacy, he would always say “lnnocent, ita zvinhu zvako”, meaning work hard and have your own belongings. I would like to give special thanks to Peter Mugwendere who heads up the football project. He has worked with me since 2013 and has been there since the very beginning. His dedication to the project – and the community – means the BJM Trust continues to grow from strength to strength, helping more and more young people. I would also like to thank Sydney “Dozvaa” Mugabe who helps me to keep the operation running smoothly when I am out of the country – his help and support is hugely appreciated and, quite simply, I couldn’t manage without him. My dream is to one day see Mabvuku have a football team in the Premier Soccer League in Zimbabwe and after a positive start to the season, we feel we are moving in the right direction to achieve this! The community (in Mabvuku) certainly support this dream. In the recent ‘’Mabvuku Derby’’ against Ali Sundowns, another Mabvuku project, the crowd was amazing – Mabvuku Number 1 Ground was packed like a can of sardines with fans of all ages. This is what it’s all about — bringing focus and positivity to the community. My dream, my hope, my desire – my Mabvuku.