The Herald Youth Interactive Writer Denzel Anele Sibanda, better known as Dangerous Diesel, is an ambitious, self-driven and multi-talented creative who aspires to bring a positive change to the world through various channels, including music and teaching. The 25 year-old practitioner works daily on his confidence to become a better man through practising self-awareness and paying attention to social and emotional dynamics in line with his life. From a tender age, Denzel felt he was called to be a musician and claims that he heard the voice of God directing him to sing when he was 4. From that moment onwards, he trusted the voice marked the beginning of his mushrooming musical journey. As he grew up, Denzel felt desensitised because of a lack of self-confidence. Oftentimes, he found himself around the wrong people. In his own words, he says, “It’s one thing to have external success, but the most important success is internal because no one can take it away from you.” For all that could be said about Denzel, singing is his first love. It is subsequently becoming second nature to him to dabble in pop, RnB, and soul. At present, he classifies himself as a performing artiste and enjoys engaging with the audience when singing live. He cites Lenny Kravitz, Joe Thomas and Trey Songz as his biggest influences. Denzel’s musical catalogue comprises love songs inspired by personal experiences and imagination. In his writing, he enjoys being daring and unapologetic to shock his audience. His work ethic demands constantly pushing himself to the limit and strategising himself beyond his “sweet spot”. A man of great confidence and eloquence, Denzel came first in Africa during his high school time at the All Africa Convention. He is also a Music Crossroads Academy alumnus class of 2018, and in 2021 he attended The Cookout MasterClass in Songwriting with Vincent Berry II. Denzel also did counselling with the Centre of Excellence and Public Speaking (School of Public Speaking) and is a Youth Advocates Leadership Initiative (YALI) fellow. In February, Denzel was identified among the Most Influential Youths in Zimbabwe by the Generation Next Youth Organisation. When he is on stage serenading hordes of revellers or giving therapy sessions to those in need of it, can be found at Afrotopia co-working space in the heartbeat of downtown Harare CBD where he works Denzel works at Afrotopia in the financial, administration and event management department. Denzel is also passionate about modelling, fashion, grooming, etiquettecy and enjoys being in front of the camera. That’s where he feels the most comfortable and confident. In his spare time, he fancies reading about spirituality and self-love, as he is an aspiring self-love teacher destined to change the lives of people during his lifetime. Denzel is a young leader who is on a mission to free people and empower them no matter the consequence, but he also knows that whatever he wants to do externally begins within him internally.