The Herald Ellina Mhlanga-Senior Sports Reporter AS the Zimbabwe swimming team brace for the CANA Zone IV Championships that start tomorrow in Lusaka, Zambia, coach Michael Ranken is confident they stand a good chance of claiming the top spot. Zimbabwe won the regional event in 2020, in Botswana. Last year it was replaced by a virtual competition due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking on the sidelines of a send-off ceremony for the team, held at Hartmann House School yesterday, just before the team’s departure, Ranken said they have experienced swimmers who are capable of repeating the same feat that saw them emerging as the overall winners in 2020. “What we have done is, going to this event, we have carried an experienced team. Yes, we have chosen the best swimmers that we have got in the country and we are hoping that they will do well. “We are basing on the experiences because most of the swimmers that we have, they have been at international competition before. They have been competing, they have been to regional, national championships and SA Juniors, they have been there. “So what we are carrying with us is we are carrying experience. So with that experience we are hoping that we will turn the tables and everything into our favour because it’s all about how many competitions you have been to and how you performed in those competitions. “So we are hoping that our swimmers will be on top of all the swimmers that we are going to meet there,” said Ranken. Zimbabwe are expected to field a 38-member team. The team include Donata Katai, who represented Zimbabwe at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games last year. She was also at the African Union Sports Council Region Five Games in Lesotho together with Chinyere Mgbemena, Rianna Rollo, Tanatsirwa Chitsurura, Timea Schultz, Ryan Franceys and Benjamin Rorke. They are all part of the team that will compete in Zambia. There are also upcoming swimmers Kyle Guta and Limbikani Kalipengule. “We have had the chance to talk to the swimmers and to look at the swimmers as they were training here in Harare… The morale with the swimmers themselves, they really want to do it and they want to achieve. “Now it’s something else to have an athlete who want to win and an athlete who just want to do things. These guys do want to win, so definitely the morale is high and we are going to get PBs,” said Ranken. Paul Mwipikeni withdrew from the team due to an injury.  Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Minister, Kirsty Coventry, in a speech read on her behalf by Permanent Secretary Thokozile Chitepo, said they are committed to the development of swimming in the country. “As Government, we are cognisant of the efforts which are being rendered by the Zimbabwe Aquatic Union to develop swimmers from all the provinces. “My Ministry is seriously committed to see to it that swimmers are being developed from every corner of the country. “It is the mandate of my Ministry to ensure that there is a swimming club in every community and swimmers being developed to reach to the podium level such as this one. “It is our hope that as the Ministry that you are going to bring some medals home and make us proud,” said Coventry. She also paid tribute the various stakeholders including parents for their support and said swimming is one of the major contributors when it comes to medals for the country. Other countries expected to compete the competition include Angola, Comoros, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Eswatini and hosts Zambia. Lindsy Tudor-Cole is the other coach for Zimbabwe and Zanele Nkomazana is the team manager. The send-off was graced by parents of the swimmers, officials from the Zimbabwe Olympic Committee and the Sports and Recreation Commission. Team Girls 11/12: Adrianna Bhana, Alexis Johnsen, Ruvarashe Choto, Mbalenhle Sibanda. Boys 11/12: Klye Guta, Nathaniel Jerahuni, Kwandokuhle Nkomazana. Girls 13/14: Olivia Accorsi, Tanatswa Chandiwana, Tori Dawe, Loyiso Mahobele, Nozintaba Masiye-Moyo, Peyton Wishart, Tafadzwa Chandiwana. Boys 13/14: Kayden Bhana, Limbikani Kalipengule, Khaya Vimba, Douglas Njowola, Tarirai Madamombe. Girls 15/16: Vhenekai Dhemba, Kiara Goodinson, Mkhuseli Mahobele, Matida Musere, Saira Ramajan. Boys 15/16: Nigel Madziyire, Bjorn Mhlanga, Onesimus Ngwenya, Andile Mhlope. Girls 17 and Over Tanatsirwa Chitsurura, Donata Katai, Chinyere Mgbemena, Riana Rollo, Timea Schultz. Boys 17 and Over: Ryan Franceys, Nathan Ngwenya, Benjamin Rorke, Cory Werrett. Open Water Swim Jade Chicksen