The Herald BEIJING — Chinese President Xi Jinping met via video link with President Charles Michel of the European Council and President Ursula von der Leyen of the European Commission in Beijing on the evening of April 1. President Xi recalled that he made a suggestion eight years ago for China and Europe to foster a China-EU partnership for peace, growth, reform and civilisation. China’s vision remains unchanged. If anything, it has become more relevant under the current circumstances. China and the EU share extensive common interests and a solid foundation for co-operation. Noting the consistency and continuity of China’s EU policy, President Xi called on the EU to form its own perception of China, adopt an independent China policy, and work with China to promote the steady and sustained growth of China-EU relations and to add stabilising factors to a turbulent world. President Xi stressed that China and the EU should act as two major forces upholding world peace, and offset uncertainties in the international landscape with the stability of China-EU relations. The two sides need to take the lead in defending the international system with the UN at its core, the international order underpinned by international law, and the basic norms governing international relations based on the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, and jointly reject the resurrection of rival-bloc mentality and oppose attempts at a new Cold War, with a view to maintaining world peace and stability. President Xi pointed out that China and the EU should act as two big markets promoting shared development, and deepen economic globalisation through open co-operation. China will stay committed to deepening reform and further opening up. China welcomes European business investment and expects the EU to provide a fair, transparent and non-discriminatory environment for Chinese business investment and development in Europe. The two sides need to seek greater synergy between their development strategies and explore more complementarity between China’s new development philosophy and paradigm and the EU’s trade policy for open strategic autonomy. President Xi underscored that China and the EU should act as two great civilizations promoting human progress, and meet global challenges through solidarity and collaboration. The two sides need to follow true multilateralism, advocate a vision of global governance featuring the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, continue to spearhead international co-operation on climate change and biodiversity, and work together to defeat Covid-19. China welcomes the EU’s support for and participation in the Global Development Initiative. President Michel and President Von der Leyen said that China is an important force in the world. The EU attaches great importance to China’s international standing and role, and to developing relations with China. China and the EU enjoy a longstanding relationship of mutual benefit. Both sides are committed to defending peace and multilateralism. Under the current international situation, it is vital for the EU and China to increase dialogue and co-operation. The EU side reaffirmed its commitment to the one-China principle and expressed its desire for candid exchanges with China to sustain the good momentum of EU-China relations. It also expressed readiness to keep deepening co-operation with China in such fields as economy, trade, investment, energy and green development, to jointly confront global challenges like Covid-19, climate change, and protection of biodiversity and promote world peace, economic growth and common prosperity. The EU will provide support and co-operation for the success of the second part of COP15 in China. The two sides exchanged views on the situation in Ukraine. The EU leaders shared their views and propositions on the Ukraine crisis. President Xi emphasised that China finds it deeply regrettable that the situation in Ukraine has come to where it is today. China’s position on the Ukraine issue is consistent and clear-cut. China always stands on the side of peace and draws its conclusion independently based on the merits of each matter. China calls for upholding international law and universally recognised norms governing international relations, acts in accordance with the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, and advocates the vision of common, comprehensive, co-operative and sustainable security. — Xinhua