The Herald Dylan Dzenga Youth Interactive Writer The music industry is one of, if not the most challenging and underpaying in the whole of Zimbabwe. Despite it all, many youths have turned to music to express how they feel about life and everything that happens in their lives. Takudzwa Mavata, popularly known as TakuMan ZitaGuru, is a film student at the University of Zimbabwe who is into songwriting and singing. The 22-years-old was born in Harare and raised in the dusty Tshovani township in Chiredzi. ZitaGuru focuses on Zim Hip Hop and believes that music has the ultimate power to influence a change of behaviour as well as inspire many youths raised in the ghetto to aim high in life. “I began singing when I was still a teenager and released my very first track in 2013 which was titled ‘Ndopa Kutenda Kuna Mwari’ which, up-to-date, I still talk of the town as many youths relate to the meaning of the song,” said Takudzwa ZitaGuru has released a number of hit songs like, “Sad Moments”, “Zino Irema” which featured Okoye Swagmore, “My Apology” and “Siyana Neni” just to mention a few. As of today, the young man has written and produced more than 80 tracks on YouTube some of which have featured Ti Gonzi. “I sing and write songs to inspire youths, to express what most of them feel deep inside towards any situation that we may face as a country. I believe that music should have meaning and when someone listens to your song, he or she must feel it,” said Takudzwa The young artiste has proven to the world that his passion and zeal for music is greater than his disability which makes him believe that being unable to walk can never determine his future. The music industry is very difficult for young artistes, but the challenges that Takudzwa face are a bit different to the rest. “It is very difficult to get featured mostly in concerts and live performances, so as to publicise my name. “Most people just do not like seeing me perform just because I won’t be jumping around and all, but it is something that I’m working on and would really appreciate if people would notice my talent and not my disability because that is not what defines me,” he clarified Mavata is not one to be easily intimidated by people’s opinions and jeers, but rather he draws inspiration from such, even to the extent of motivating him to come up with lyrics to a song because of other people’s attitude. He is one of the few that are well representing youths living with disabilities in a society where people are so stereotypical. “There is one quote I always tell myself; ‘Disability is no excuse where there is passion,’ meaning my passion is greater than what the world around me views as my limitations. Therefore I keep on moving,” said Takudzwa The young songwriter seeks assistance in producing his music as well publicity in doing so. He also aims to produce music videos when he gets sponsorship so as to add more visuals to his music.