The Herald Tapiwa Bepe In this week’s section of profiling the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange (ZSE) retail investors, we feature Helen Kalume. ZSE Retail Investor Name: Helen Kalume Age: 40 years Profession: Human Resources Practitioner Hobbies: traveling, baking and reading Aspiration: Hope to create multiple streams of income so that she can retire in ease Helen Kalume is a ZSE retail Investor whose interest in investing started in 2020. Helen actively started investing on the ZSE in July 2021. The Investment Journey Ever since high school, Helen had an interest in investing after taking part in the JCI initiative which was running in schools. In 2018 she began reading about investing on the stock market to prepare herself to get started and in 2020 she contacted her stockbroker to open a trading account and then registered on the online trading platforms in July 2021. Helen’s portfolio includes counters in the Real Estate, Consumer Staples, Financials and Industrials Sectors. The Investment Strategy When Helen started investing, she would invest in the Small Caps, as a way of learning and testing the waters. As she is now gaining experience, she has shifted to the mid-caps. Helen reads financial news to stay abreast and get insights into the market, and also consults with her friends who are long term investors. Her strategy is to invest a set amount every month. Highlights and lows of the investment journey The excitement of receiving a dividend in December 2021 showed her that there are opportunities when one invests. Helen has not suffered any low yet in her investment journey as her focus is on building her portfolio. Advice to Prospective Investors “Read as much as you can about a counter before you buy it, and remember that the company’s websites are invaluable. Don’t follow the band wagon, do your research.” DISCLAIMER Information provided in this article is for educational purposes and does not constitute financial advice. You should obtain independent advice from a Registered Stockbroker or Financial Advisor before making any financial decisions.  For more information about how to invest on the ZSE, visit the ZSE training portal www.zsetraining.co.zw, email info@zse.co.zw, Tel: +263 24 2886830-5 