The Herald Ivan Zhakata Arts Correspondent Seasoned musician Jah Prayzah is expected to participate in the “Blowout Festival” edition as a special guest this Sunday at Borrowdale Racecourse. He will be complemented by top socialites such as Mike Chimombe, Ciciana, Nessmwaa and DJ Bhana among other guests who will be gracing the fiesta. The festival, which is characterised by burnouts, trail biking and music, will be promoting acrobatics as it joins the nation in celebrating Workers’ Day. Blowout Festival is not just about burnouts, but a celebration of car culture, music and lifestyle and will be hosted by Selekta Base, real name Arnold Chingwerewe. It will also feature spinners from Masvingo, Bulawayo and Mutare who are expected to thrill the crowd with their spinning tactics. Among the teams are Team Gusheshe, Team RunX, Team Subaru, Team Altezza, Zimtorque, SJ Auto and Roll Hard. Popular stunts men, Goofa, Fat Cat, Jadah, Ice, Cici Boy, Fuzzy, New Boys, Spin Kid, and Saviour are expected to put out their best stunts, battling on the arena, burning and drifting their BMW iS models usually pre 1993, popularly known as the Gusheshe in the motoring circles. Besides burnouts, which are the main activities for the festival, other activities to expect include battle of the disc jockeys, and live performances that  will be complemented by jumping castles and water slides for kids. As if that is not enough, there will also be a spa on the wheels and a mobile car wash by The Sparkle Drive. Selekta Base said people should expect fireworks as the Workers’ Day edition will be filled with a lot of surprise guests who will grace the event. He said Jah Prayzah will be part of the special guests who are set to steal the limelight. “This time we are promoting acrobatics and Jah Prayzah will be there supported by DJs  Rax, Raydizz, Rawse and The Bando,” Selekta Base said. “We have also partnered with Eylon Engine Oil company and Nyaradzo as our main sponsors. “Blowout is not just about burnouts as most people would like to believe but it is a celebration of car culture, music and lifestyle. “There will be a lot of entertainment for both adults and kids, food stalls, beverages, cocktails and mocktails as well as a kids entertainment zone with tight security. “Covid-19 protocols will be observed and we encourage everyone to wear their masks as they will be checked their temperature at the entrance.” Smoke from burning rubber will engulf the venue as the spinners showcase their styles that are strictly a preserve for the daring. The event is expected to attract petrol-heads of various ages and gates to the event are set to open at 12 noon. It is likely to be a day of fun as the spinners take turns to burst tyres of their speeding and circling cars in a sport that has brought classic entertainment to various joints in the capital over the past years. Burnouts are becoming a popular motor culture in Zimbabwe and drivers love to pimp their vehicles and compete at high speeds. The country has a veritable population of petrol heads and this can be seen by the growth in popularity in terms of both participants and spectators at drag racing and burnout events.