The Herald Ellina Mhlanga-Sports Reporter FORMER Black Rhinos juniors football team manager Christopher Chipembere has been given an opportunity to improve his coaching qualifications after his application to attend a UEFA course in Northern Ireland was approved. He is expected to attend the UEFA C diploma, which is aimed at grassroots coaches. It supplies participants with the skills to provide a positive developmental experience that enhances players’ enjoyment, knowledge and skill. It covers topics such as child safeguarding, basic first aid and the importance of promoting a healthy, active lifestyle. Chipembere believes attending the course will improve his capacity to contribute to grassroots development in this country. He pointed out that junior development is a key ingredient for the success of football but has been neglected over the years in this country. “I think grassroots development is the answer to our football problems in Zimbabwe. “We have neglected the juniors and I believe this coaching course will be vital to the development of our football as I will be learning the latest development techniques from UEFA. “UEFA coach education programmes have been the forefront of European football clubs,” said Chipembere. Chipembere applied to attend the course last year and was approved to attend this year. However, he is running out of time to pay the registration fee of £1 775. The deadline is this Friday. “I applied last year and my registration was approved. I have made several appeals to many companies to help me pay for this registration fee. It has to be paid by Friday, 8 April. “I have approached several companies but to no avail, so I am hoping and praying that a good Samaritan will help me pay for this registration fee on the 11th hour “So if I get sponsorship to attend this course I do believe I will play a major role in the development of our football. We have many talented players in this country but they are lacking direction due to lack of proper coaching at a younger age,” said Chipembere. The course will run in three phases. The first two phases are done online before the final phase, which is practical. The first phase is set for May 24 and 26 while the second one is pencilled in for June 6 and 8. Chipembere will then have to attend the final phase, which is the practical part, that runs from July 23 to 28 in Northern Ireland. He also needs to raise funds for the air ticket.