The Herald With winter slowly creeping upon us, warm sunny days have become few and far between. Flip-flops and strappy sandals will soon be replaced with chunky socks and boots galore. Because our feet are always on display in summer, pedicures with pretty nail colours are an essential part of your beauty routine. You won’t dare slip dry feet with cracked heels into a fancy pair of sandals! People tend to take less care of their feet in winter, when they are all covered up and tucked away in comfy furry boots. Out of sight, out of mind. They still need some TLC. Winter doesn’t last forever and the last thing you want when spring comes around is dry cracked heels, and toenails that need serious attention. Here’s how to take care of your feet during the colder months, including an easy home pedicure. When it comes to socks, opt for natural fabrics like cotton or wool. These allow your feet to breathe whereas synthetic fabrics, such as nylon, don’t. Moisturise. While you might do your best to keep your feet warm and cosy, the cold will still dry your skin. The extra hot showers and long baths that we love during winter will dry your skin even more. Moisturising is the best defence against dry skin. Opt for rich creams and oils to keep those cracked heels at bay. Home pedicure We don’t get out to salons as often in winter, but a simple home pedicure is an easy enough routine to add to your skincare regime. Here are four easy steps to follow for the perfect home pedi. Soak your feet. This is one way to soften the soles of your feet including your heels which take most of the beating. Once you’re done soaking your feet pat them dry using a towel. Exfoliate. A foot scrub helps to soften your heels. Rinse off all the exfoliating scrub with warm water before moving on to the next step. Use a pumice stone to help smooth your feet. Gently rub the pumice stone against rough areas, especially your heels. Now moisturise your feet as if your life depended on it. If you’re doing your pedi before bed, apply a generous amount of moisturiser then cover your feet with cotton socks. Meanwhile, African Fashion International (AFI) is hosting a fashion experience in Botswana. In collaboration with Forbes, the AFI Fashion Experience will take place at Kasane, the Chobe District of Botswana on April 27, which will be Freedom Day in South Africa. AFI will be introducing two Botswana fashion brands, Dihdah and internationally-acclaimed iZaura. Also expected to showcase is Kenyan-based Ohana Swimwear. Representing South Africa are MyOpenClozet, Kworks owned by AFI Fastrack 2021 runner-up Keneoue Mhletswa and the futuristic showstopper ImprintZA by Mzukisi Mbane. The two-day show will see the African designers showcase their latest collections. The Forbes AFI Fashion Experience is not only about the designers. It will also allow emerging models to walk the ramp alongside established models. Some of the supermodels who will strut the runway include Kaone Kario, Face of Africa (2005), Emma Wareus, Miss World runner-up (2010) and Palesa Molefe, reigning Miss Botswana. Founder and chief executive of AFI, Dr Precious Moloi-Motsepe, says the fashion experience is an extension of the Forbes Under 30 Summit that they recently participated in. “Over the years, AFI has developed a powerful platform that has elevated pan-African designers towards international recognition. With the Forbes Under 30 Summit, the aim is to extend the power of the platform to emerging young talent in Botswana, offering them space to learn, grow and build their portfolios of experience for their next big opportunity,” she said. The Forbes AFI Fashion Experience can also be viewed online on the AFI website. — IOLNews.com