The Herald Pretoria. — South African Music Award-winning Afro-Soul vocalist Lira whose real name is Lerato Molapo, has been hospitalised after suffering a stroke. Her family revealed that the 43-year-old SAMA winner suffered from a stroke while on tour in Germany, where she was billed to perform on several shows. According to a family spokesperson, Lira suffered a severe stroke but travelled back to South Africa, where she is currently receiving medical assistance. In a message to Lira’s fans, clients and associates, the family said;  “We would like to take this opportunity to share some recent developments regarding Lira’s health. Lira recently travelled to Germany for a performance but unfortunately suffered a stroke. As a result, her ability to communicate, particularly her speech, has been impacted. “She is currently undergoing treatment in South Africa, led by the best medical team available. Her medical team has advised that her journey to recovery will require patience, and therefore, it is unlikely that she will be able to perform in the short term. Lira is in good spirits and is surrounded by her loving family and close friends as she journeys towards a full recovery. “We thank you all in advance for your prayers, support, kindness and utmost sensitivity and consideration during this very challenging time in her life.Let there be light,” said the family. Dubbed the best Afro-Soul vocalist, Lira has managed to make a name for herself in South Africa and the world. The multi-platinum selling musician went down in the history books of South African music after becoming one of the biggest award winners for the South African Music Awards. As of 2022, she holds more than 11 awards. Her thrust into the limelight came when she was just 16-years. Despite graduating in accounting, she went on to ditch her profession to pursue her craze for music. The Daveyton-born and bred sensation started releasing cover and penned songs that grabbed  the country’s attention. She has since released ten studio albums, several of them reaching double platinum. In 2010 she headlined the historical FIFA World Cup hosted in South Africa. Lira performed alongside some of the world’s biggest acts such as Shakira, Alicia Keys and John Legend. Back, in 2019, she hogged the headlines for the wrong reasons after her fallout with her estranged husband and manager, Robin Kohl. Lira took to Instagram to confirm their separation after nine years of marriage. — Savvananews.