The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter DYNAMOS captain Partson Jaure is back to lead his troops when the Harare giants plunge into a Castle Lager Premiership football duel against Black Rhinos at the National Sports Stadium this Sunday. Jaure missed the team’s last two outings against ZPC Kariba and Harare City because of a back injury. DeMbare also received a selection boost as defensive midfielder Keith Murera is also back from the injury that made him unavailable for last week’s win over the Sunshine Boys. The Glamour Boys coach Tonderai Ndiraya yesterday said he was relieved by the return of his players. “I’m happy to report that our captain is back, Partson Jaure. I am also happy to report that Keith Murera is also back. He has been out for a few weeks. “But we may miss Sylvester Appiah. He picked up a groin injury and that is really a huge blow for us. But we are happy Partson is back, he should be able to lead his troops on Sunday. “Apart from that I think all the players are available for selection. We are actually having a huge headache in terms of team selection because all the players have been so good in training, and that has really left us with a positive headache, one which we are really enjoying at the moment,” said Ndiraya. The DeMbare coach is currently enjoying a purple patch with his team maintaining a 100 percent winning run in their last four games. Dynamos are walking with a spring in their step because of the victories over Bulawayo Chiefs, Tenax, ZPC Kariba and Harare City. The Harare giants are keen on extending the winning run in order to position themselves for a serious challenge in this year’s Castle Lager Premiership title race. “We are expecting a good result. We would want to continue to pick up maximum points. We have done that in the past four games and our next target is the fifth one, which is the match against Rhinos. Hopefully we can get a good result,” said Ndiraya. The DeMbare coach however has refused to be carried away. He has a difficult job to keep his side focused. Dynamos are currently sitting second on the log standings with 19 points, three behind leaders Chicken Inn, while Rhinos have been operating in fits and starts and are a distant ninth in the race, with 13 points. “This is a different challenge in terms of football fitness. So it’s something we have been working on particularly the psychological side of the game, because when you win players tend to relax. They tend to be complacent, so that is what we have been working on. “But of course, in football you want to work on all aspects of the game. You have got to make sure you are prepared mentally, physically, technically and tactically. “So we have been working on all those fitness components and hopefully we can be in the best shape possible when we engage our opponents on Sunday,” said Ndiraya. Dynamos have dominated Rhinos in the recent clashes. They have not lost a game to their opponents in their previous four meetings in the league competition. But the teams last met in the league competition in 2019 before Covid-19 caused a two-year interruption. DeMbare were also on top when they played Rhinos in the quarterfinals of the recent Chibuku Super Cup. Fixtures Tomorrow Chicken Inn v Manica Diamonds (Luveve), Yadah v Herentals (Baobab), FC Platinum v Whawha (Mandava), Cranborne Bullets v Bulawayo City (Sakubva), ZPC Kariba v Harare City (Nyamhunga) Sunday Triangle v Highlanders (Gibbo), Tenax v CAPS United (Sakubva), Bulawayo Chiefs v Ngezi Platinum Stars (Luveve), Dynamos v Black Rhinos (NSS)