The Herald Crime Reporter Police in Harare will today embark on another massive operation targeting pirate taxis commonly referred to as mushikashika, unregistered cars, street kids controlling traffic and vendors operating at intersections, in a move aimed at restoring order and decongesting the city. The operation will include other stakeholders including the Zimbabwe National Road Administration (Zinara), Vehicle Inspectorate Department (VID), Ruwa Local Board, Chitungwiza Town Council, Epworth Local Board, Harare City Council and the Department of Social Welfare. It will be conducted in the following policing districts; Harare Central, Suburban, Mbare, Chitungwiza, Traffic, Harare East, Harare South and Harare North. In a statement yesterday, Harare deputy provincial police spokesperson Assistant Inspector Webster Dzvova confirmed the operation. “The Zimbabwe Republic Police Harare Province will conduct an operation to restore sanity and decongest the Harare Central Business District (CBD) and the Greater Harare starting on April 27, 2022. “The thematic areas of the operation amongst others include: decongesting the city, no to mushikashika, no to unregistered vehicles, no to street kids controlling traffic and no vendors at intersections,” he said. Citizens have been warned against boarding pirate taxis. “As Harare Province, we are worried by the congestion during peak hours and a number of criminal cases emanating from these mushikashika and non-Zupco kombis and buses. A number of robberies, rape and theft cases have occurred in which victims fall prey to these illegal transporters who misrepresent themselves as transporters through mushikashika. “We have declared war against these mushikashikas. We will continuously impound the mushikashikas and arrest the drivers. We hereby appeal to our travelling public to avoid mushikashikas. Only Zupco buses and Zupco affiliated kombis are allowed to operate. “Those with private vehicles are encouraged and warned against picking up strangers as passengers as they may end up being robbed of their motor vehicles,” said Asst Insp Dzvova.