The Herald From sequins and sparkles to slinky frocks, we round up our favourite looks from the red carpet The 2022 Grammy Awards was held in Las Vegas last weekend, making it one of the final ceremonies to take place this awards season, which has seen the red carpet make a triumphant return after a few years of virtual events and trimmed-down celebrity guest lists. The award show, which pays tribute to music’s biggest stars, is always one of the most creative when it comes to fashion – and last night was no different. Below, we round up our fashion highlights from this year’s Grammys. From Lady Gaga and Hailey Bieber keeping things sleek and classic to Tiffany Haddish and Chloe Bailey’s sequins, Chrissy Teigen’s voluminous pink dress and Lily Aldridge wearing the London designer of the moment, these were our favourite outfits from the red carpet. Lady Gaga in Armani Privé Lady Gaga has mastered her signature red-carpet style this past year, making a case for classic, sleek and sophisticated ensembles. Her dress for the Grammys, a custom design by Armani Privé, was just this. The one-shouldered black gown featured a dramatic white train, and she paired the look with a sleek updo and plenty of Tiffany & Co diamonds. Hailey Bieber in Saint Laurent Another star who channeled low-key and sophisticated elegance was Hailey Bieber, who turned heads in a slinky, white, strapless gown by Saint Laurent. The dress, which fitted her perfectly, was complemented by a relaxed braided hairstyle and a barely-there necklace by Tiffany & Co. Chloe Bailey in Valentino Not everyone opted for simplicity on the night though – Chloe Bailey looked striking in sequins. The star wore a sparkly silver gown and matching cape by Valentino, which she teamed with platform peep-toes and statement stud earrings by Tiffany & Co. Chrissy Teigen in Nicole + Felicia Couture Also making a case for a little red-carpet drama was Chrissy Teigen, who wore an enormous bright pink ballgown by Nicole + Felicia Couture. The strapless dress was covered in exaggerated ruffles, but was nipped in at the waist. Dua Lipa in Versace Dua Lipa was the ultimate Versace girl for the 2022 Grammys. The singer wore a slinky black and gold bondage-inspired design by the Italian fashion house on the red carpet, which was just her first Versace look of the night, later changing into another black dress for her on-stage appearance. She finished her look with equally statement-making Bulgari jewels. Rachel Zegler in Dior couture Rachel Zegler was picture perfect in a princess gown by Dior, which was made up of beautiful grey tulle and delicate embroidery. The actress added a diamond Tiffany & Co necklace to her look, as well as a bright orange lip. Lily Aldridge in Nensi Dojaka Supermodel Lily Aldridge wore one of our favourite looks of the night, a slinky, black, lingerie-inspired dress by London Fashion Week designer Nensi Dojaka. She teamed the dress with slinky sandals. 