The Herald Ellina Mhlanga-Senior Sports Reporter MARATHON runners are back in camp, in Harare, as their targeted qualifying races for the World Athletics Championships get closer. The World Championships will be held in the United States from July 15 to 24 and Zimbabwe are still pursuing qualification for marathon and track and field events. The qualifying period for marathon closes on May 29 and time is also running out. However, the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe are pushing to have some athletes qualifying for the global meet. For track and field qualification closes on June 26. The camp for the distance runners is being led by Benson Chauke, who previously worked with Cuthbert Nyasango. Most of the marathon runners are expected to compete in the South Africa Championships on May 8.  NAAZ director for coaching, talent identification and development, Lisimati Phakamile, said their focus is more on qualification for the World Championships during this camp. “We have already started our second block of distance runners camp. We are focusing mainly on the qualification for the World Championships. So we have got the whole of this month to work and we are basically targeting the South African competition, which is going to be on 8 May with local guys although there are some athletes that are targeting to compete overseas and other events that are lined up around the world. “We are not basically only looking at the marathon runners. We are also looking at our sprinters who are busy working in their camps trying to prepare as well to qualify for the Africa Senior Championships that is scheduled for Mauritius. The likes of Ngoni Makusha. “We also have the juniors and the youth also trying to prepare for the World Junior Championships that are set for Colombia. So we are basically in a very busy period as athletics, our teams are working flat out and our coaches are on the ground now,” said Phakamile. Ngonidzashe Ncube is expected to run in the Netherlands, in the Enschede Marathon, on April 24.  South Africa-based Rutendo Nyahora is targeting the Vienna Marathon also due to take place this month. “Looking at the time that is left for qualification, we have really put a lot of work and focused on the competition that we are targeting. We are hopeful that we will have a full team of males qualifying for the World Championship this time around that’s why we had to invest in these camps and work and sharpen these guys using partners and pacesetters. And also having our local coaches work together and come together and stay with the athletes in camp and assist them as much as we can,” said Phakamile. After missing qualification to the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games, local athletes know they have to up their game going into the qualifying races if they are to get the times for the World Championships.