The Herald ETHEKWINI. – Rescuers searched for dozens of people still missing in South Africa’s KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) province on Sunday after heavy rains in recent days triggered floods and mudslides that have killed more than 440 people. The floods have left thousands homeless, knocked out power and water services and disrupted operations at one of Africa’s busiest ports, Durban. A provincial economic official estimated the overall infrastructure damage at more than R10 billion. The province’s premier, Sihle Zikalala, said the death toll had risen to 443, with a further 63 people unaccounted for. In some of the worst-affected areas, residents said they were terrified by the thought of more rain, which was forecast to fall on Sunday. Some faced an agonising wait for news of missing loved ones. “We haven’t lost hope. Although we are constantly worried as (the) days continue,” Sbongile Mjoka, a resident of Sunshine village in the eThekwini municipality whose 8-year-old nephew has been missing for days. “We are traumatised by the sight of rain,” said Mjoka, 47, adding that her home had been badly damaged. In a nearby semi-rural area, three members of the Sibiya family were killed when the walls of the room where they slept collapsed and 4-year-old Bongeka Sibiya is still missing. “Everything is a harsh reminder of what we lost, and not being able to find (Bongeka) is devastating because we can’t grieve or heal. At this stage we are left feeling empty,” said Lethiwe Sibiya. President Cyril Ramaphosa’s office said on Saturday he had delayed a working visit to Saudi Arabia to focus on the disaster. Mr Ramaphosa will meet cabinet ministers to assess the response to the crisis. Premier Zikalala told a televised briefing that the floods were among the worst in his province’s recorded history. “This is perhaps one of the biggest disasters in the living memory of our province. The level of devastation of human life, infrastructure, and service delivery networks in the province is unprecedented,” Zikalala said. “We need to summon our collective courage and turn this devastation into an opportunity to rebuild our province,” he said. “The people of KwaZulu-Natal will rise from this mayhem.” Meanwhile,  the SA National Defence Force (SANDF) has deployed 10 000 troops to KwaZulu-Natal to help authorities manage the aftermath of the flooding The army will help by erecting field accommodation, providing fresh water with its water purification systems, and deploying electricians and plumbers to restore power and water supply to areas affected by the floods, the SANDF said. “The SA Army pledges include 31 10 000-litre water bunkers, three water-provisioning systems, two water points with 1-litre bottled water/plastic sachets, a platoon of electricians and plumbers, 60 tents and bedding for the affected communities,” it said. In addition, four  helicopters and two planes will assist in search-and-rescue, extraction, reconnaissance/assessment missions, and transport of humanitarian relief. – Agencies