The Herald LONDON. — Jurgen Klopp says he is preparing to face “the best team in the world” when Liverpool and Manchester City lock horns in a fixture that could decide the destination of the English Premier League football title. Tomorrow’s enticing encounter at the Etihad is the standout match of the season so far as the two dominant forces in English football battle for supremacy. Just one point separates the pair, with Liverpool — 14 points behind City at one stage — having relentlessly hunted down their rivals. Elsewhere, Tottenham, Arsenal, West Ham and Manchester United will renew their battle to finish in the top four, which guarantees entry to next season’s Champions League. Manchester City have barely stumbled in their pursuit of a fourth English Premier League crown in five years but a few dropped points here and there have let Liverpool back into the title race. Klopp’s men, chasing an unprecedented quadruple of trophies this season, are breathing down City’s necks after a remorseless 10-game winning run in the league. The German knows his side can ill afford to lose at the Etihad — where they have not won in the league since 2015 — but does not feel victory in Manchester would be decisive. “If you win against City, which is already difficult enough, I think nobody would think, ‘OK, that’s it decided’ because of the quality of the opponent,” he said. “We play now against the best team in the world, that’s how it is, but we will give it a try anyway.” The two sides also meet in the FA Cup semi-finals the following week in a season-defining period for both but for now all eyes are on the Etihad. Last week’s 5-1 win at home to Newcastle lifted Spurs into the top four and they stayed there thanks to Arsenal’s 3-0 defeat at Crystal Palace the following day. Antonio Conte’s side have scored 21 goals in their past six league games, with Harry Kane and Son Heung-min spearheading their charge. English Premiership Fixtures (all 4pm unless stated) Today: Everton v Manchester United (1:30pm); Arsenal v Brighton; Southampton v Chelsea; Watford v Leeds; Aston Villa v Tottenham (6:30pm). Tomorrow: Brentford v West Ham (3pm); Leicester v Crystal Palace (3pm); Norwich v Burnley (3pm); Manchester City v Liverpool (5:30pm). — AFP.