The Herald Edwin Mtami In this week’s column, the ZSE is profiling Hippo Valley Estates Limited (Hippo) as a constituent of the ZSE Top 10 Index. Prices and capitalisation figures are as at 26 April 2022. Hippo Valley Estates Limited Hippo Valley Estates was established in 1956 as a citrus estate and diversified with the first cane planted three years later in 1959. Canned Hippo Valley fruit was exported across southern Africa until the 1970s. In the wake of the sugar marker crush in 1975, the estate initiated irrigation programmes to water its sugar plantations. Hippo is a subsidiary of Tongaat Hulett Limited which is listed on Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE). Hippo Valley Estates is primarily involved in growing and milling sugar cane in Zimbabwe. This involves planting, maintaining and harvesting sugar cane crops and haulage to the sugar mill. The milling segment crushes and produces raw sugar. Hippo Valley Estates is an extensive enterprise and has other interests in sugar packaging, game hunting, fishing, and livestock and citrus farming. The Hippo Valley Estates and Triangle Sugar mills in Zimbabwe have combined milling capacity to crush more than 4 million tonnes of cane annually and produce over 60 000 tonnes of sugar. Their refining capacity is approximately 130 000 tonnes per annum. Hippo Valley Estates is ranked number eight on the bourse by market capitalization as at 26 April 2022 with a market size of $77 billion. The counter has registered a 57 percent capital gain on a year to date basis to close at $444,2753 per share as at 26 April 2022. The number of shares which exchanged hands during this time was 5 million shares amounting to $1,5 billion. Hippo Valley Estates is has been a component of the ZSE Top 10 Index on numerous occasions and is also a major weight contributor to the following indices on the ZSE: Information provided in this article is for educational purposes and does not constitute financial advice. You should obtain independent advice from a registered stockbroker or financial advisor before making any financial decisions. Please note that past performance cannot be relied on as an indication of future performance. It is important for all prospective investors to carefully consider their financial situation and consult a financial advisor or stockbroker in order to understand the risks involved and ensure the suitability of their situation prior to making any investment decision. For more information about the ZSE, visit Website: www.zse.co.zw Email: info@zse.co.zw Tel: +263 24 2886830-5