The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter ZIFA Northern Region Division One Soccer League leaders Simba Bhora should be walking with a spring in their step after scooping three of the four individual awards for the division in the month of March. The league is one of the best organised across the board and has partners who bankroll individual monthly awards. The season has reached the half-way mark with the Shamva-based Simba Bhora leading the pack with 36 points after 16 games, a point ahead of closest rivals Golden Eagles. And they have duly received the individual honours with striker Tinashe Balakasi bagging two accolades. He won the Vineyard Funeral Assurance Top Goalscorer of the Month and the Brake Front Car Hire Player of the Month accolades. Both awards carry US$200 prize money, meaning for the month of March, Balakasi will walk away US$400 richer. Balakasi, who has scored 18 goals this season, netted six goals in the month of March. His Simba Bhora teammate goalkeeper Lee Madziro won the Goalkeeper of the Month award, courtesy of Global Tech and he will walk away US$200 while the Anzaquip Coach of the Month accolade went to Ngezi Platinum Under-19 gaffer Klifton Kadurira, who takes home US$150. An excited Balakasi said the prizes will spur him to do even better. “I won’t stop scoring but huge credit goes to my coach Arthur Tutani and my teammates,” he said. “I want to break the Division Two record I achieved the last time out after scoring 25 goals. This time I would like to score 30 or more goals having already hit the target 18 times. “But credit should go to the coach who trains me and my teammates who always assist me. These accolades are for the team, not for me. “I am happy to be honoured and it is really motivating to say the least. We will continue working hard as the ultimate aim is to get promoted into the league.” Meanwhile, the league will witness a super eight tournament sponsored by Axis Solutions with the draw expected to take place in Harare this afternoon. The teams in the top eight after the first half of the season qualify for the tournament. Simba Bhora, Golden Eagles, Herentals Under-20, Commando Bullets, Black Mambas, Ngezi Under-19, Chegutu Pirates and Trojan Stars will enter into the hat this afternoon.