The Herald Dylan Munashe Dzenga-Youth Interactive Writer The abuse of drugs and substances among youths continue to rise in Zimbabwe as more of these are being introduced to society more frequently. These issue are more prevalent in the urban areas compared to the rural parts of the country. Research has shown that the prevalence of drug abuse amongst youths in the country is currently at 57 percent. The most common push factors leading youths to taking drugs are peer pressure, the distortion of family support, and lack of enough knowledge about the negative effects. Many youths have risen to challenge this case and assist their peers who are already drug addicts and educating those who have not tried it out yet. Victor Marambi is one of the few youths doing so. The 21-year-old is a law student at the University of Zimbabwe and Founder of Shanduko Capacity Development, an organisation that seeks to improve the lifestyle of youths all around Zimbabwe. With the organisation, Victor has managed to visit around 10 schools in Norton educating young people about the effects of drug and substance abuse. “As Shanduko Capacity Development, we aim at improving community conditions by utilising collaborations, promoting positive youth development delivering specialised training and resources and preventing substance use and abuse. This issue has been dominating most communities all around Zimbabwe and Norton is one of them, which became my inspiration to challenge it case in my community by educating the young ones on the side effects,” said Victor. These substances that have destroyed many lives are marijuana (mbanje), crystal methamphetamine, commonly known as ‘mutoriro’ ‘guka’ or ‘dombo’ in the country and strong alcohol called ‘musombodhiya’’. These drugs are delivered in communities by well-known members of communities sometimes who act as runners for the suppliers and drug lords and it is the duty and responsibility of other community members and parents to maintain a drug free environment for their children. “I believe that most youths in Norton, because of our efforts as an organisation, are now fully aware of the side effects of taking drugs and most of them even now assist us in spreading the word.” Marambi added As much as youths want to escape reality by taking these drugs, many have become addicted and suffer other health conditions like heart problems, increased strain on the liver seizures, strokes, mental illness and brain damage to mention a few. Not only do these substances affect one’s health, they also cause behavioural problems which include hallucinations, addiction, impulsivity, loss of self-control, aggressiveness and paranoia. “We hope to spread out of Norton and spread the word and movement to many other communities. As of now, our financial capacity limits us and we have covered ground so far using personal funds. “Any form of assistance to make this work would be greatly appreciated. It is our duty as present communities to shape the society we want to raise our children in, a community that is safe and drug free,” explained Victor.