The Herald Loice Vavi Health Matters What is mental illness It is a wide range of conditions that affect mood, thinking and behaviour. Most common types of mental disorders Anxiety disorder — It is a mental health disorder characterised by feeling of worry , anxiety or fear that are strong enough to interfere with one’s daily activities. Signs and Symptoms Worrying about daily life including school, job and social life. Worrying is uncontrollable and causes distress. Inability to set aside worry and restlessness. Usually its self diagnosable. Irritability, restlessness cognitive, racing thoughts or unwanted thoughts, fatigue, angor animi (strong perception that one is going to die), fear, insomnia, palpitations, nervous and sense of impending danger or doom. Dimentia It is a group of thinking and social symptoms that interferes with daily functioning. Signs and symptoms Experience memory loss, poor judgement and confusion. Difficulty speaking, understanding  and expressing thoughts. Wandering and getting lost in a familiar neighborhood. Repetition. Disoriented to persons, time and place Misplacing things. Depression A mental health disorder characterised by persistently depressed mood or loss of interest in activities, causing significant impairement in daily life. Possible causes includes a combination of  biological, psychological sources of distress. Signs and symptoms Low energy, low motivation, loss of interest in daily activities Suicidal thoughts. Persistent feeling of sadness. Bipolar /maniac Episodes of mood swings ranging from depressive to maniac highs. The exact cause is not known but, a combination of genetics, environment,  altered brain structure and chemistry may play a role and there is no treatment. Signs and symptoms Hyperactive, insomnia and agitation. Loss of touch with reality. Unusual talkativeness. Racing thoughts, exaggerated sense of well-being and self confidence (euphoria.) It is a mental disorder triggered by a disturbing outside events. Signs and symptoms Night mares, flash backs and feeling ‘numb.’ Avoiding certain activities, people or places. Intense feeling such as anger, fear or worry. Insomnia. Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) Excessive thoughts (obsessions) that lead to repetitive behaviours (compulsions). Signs and symptoms Checking repeatedly for problems. This includes: Checking taps, alarms, door locks and appliances to prevent damage. Checking their body for any signs of illness. Repeatedly checking communication, such as messages for fear of having made a mistake or offending the recipient. Fear of contamination, repeating words silently or counting. Schizophrenia This is a chronic, severe and disabling mental illness. Signs and symptoms Unkempt (loss of hygiene), hallucinations, delusions, fatigue and social withdrawal. Not caring about things one used to, feeling sad, down and hopeless most of the time. Weight gain or loss. Sense of being controlled by outside forces. Feeling of guilty or worthless, forgetfulness, confusion and suicidal thoughts. Risk factors for mental illness Risk factors for mental illness Protective factors for mental illness Education, employment, social well-being, availability of food and housing play a pivotal role in prevention of mental disorders because these factors are also responsible for better physical health For more information:  Contact Vavi.loice@zimpapers.co.zw or 0772224231 