The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe sevens rugby national team captain Kudzai Mashawi is hopeful that they will come out with some positive results in the Zambezi Challenge which begins tomorrow at Harare Sports Club. The tournament will also feature regional national teams from Zambia and Botswana who will bring two teams each – a senior select side and a developmental team. To add flavour to the event, some clubs that were outstanding in last week’s Sables Sevens competition have also been invited for the tournament. Mashawi is part of the Cheetahs team that will take part in the tournament that will see the Zimbabwe men’s and women’s national teams playing in front of their home fans in more than three years. The 29-year-old believes they have a good group that is results-oriented as they have spent most of their time together. “I am honoured to be given the leading role and we have a point to prove considering that the sport was affected by Covid-19. The game has been hyped and everyone is looking forward to the tournament. “The team is well balanced as there are some players who will be wearing the national team jerseys for the first time. The guys are raring to go and playing in front of their close relatives, family and friends. “As a young team, we are preparing for upcoming events and this is a good platform for us,” said Mashawi. The Cheetahs skipper believes he has a big role to play but will have no challenges as he is surrounded by players who have been in the trenches before him. “My role will be easier as there are a lot of senior players surrounding me and I have been nurtured by those who came before me. “There are guys like Kuda Chiwanza, Jerry Jaravaza, Ryan Mushumhi and Godfrey Magaramombe, among others. I will play my part and help calm my nerves,” said Mashawi. The Cheetahs and the Lady Cheetahs will use the Zambezi Challenge to prepare for the men’s and women’s Africa Cup Sevens Tournaments respectively which are expected to run concurrently between April 21 to 25 in Uganda and Tunisia. Meanwhile, the Zimbabwe Under-20 rugby team for the Barthes Under-20 Trophy got a huge morale-booster after they received a kit from Seed-Co shortly before they left the country for Nairobi, Kenya. The Young Sables will take part in the week-long competition that runs from tomorrow to April 17  Nyayo National Stadium in Nairobi. They will take on Tunisia in their first match with coach Shaun De Souza saying everything is in place for them to compete. “The stage is set and we are set for Kenya. Our first fixture has been mentioned, where we will face Tunisia (tomorrow). We are ready, everyone is looking forward to the competition.’’ The Rugby Africa Under-20 Barthes Trophy will get underway with eight nations participating in the tournament which will be played on a knockout basis over three days. There will be four quarter-final fixtures tomorrow with the semi-finals set for next Wednesday at the same venue in Nairobi. The title decider will be played on April 17. Former champions Namibia will start the tournament facing Cote d’Ivoire in the opening fixture, paving the way for the second clash between Tunisia and Zimbabwe. Madagascar, losing finalists in 2021, will take on Zambia in the day’s third fixture, before hosts and defending champions Kenya take on neighbours Uganda in the last quarter-final. This year’s tournament is open to the public after the Kenyan government lifted COVID-19 restrictions to allow sporting venues to host fans to their capacity. Cheetahs Squad: Kudzai Mashawi (captain), Vuyani Dhlomo, Tadius Dzandiwandira, Prince Ncube, Tamuka Pamire, Kudakwashe Chiwanza, Munesu Muneta, Nigel Tinarwo, Godfrey Magaramombe, Ryan Musumhi, Carlos Matematema, Jeremiah Jaravaza Head coach: Graham Kaulback Assistant coach: Ricky Chirengende Team Manager: Tafadzwa Mhende Physio: Maggy Gibson Fixtures Tomorrow Under-20: Old Georgians v FS Raiders (9am); Pitbulls v Harare Sports Club (9:20am); Old Georgians v Zimbiru (11:40am); Pitbulls v XP Horns (12noon); FS Raiders v Zimbiru (2pm); Harare Sports Club v XP Horns (2:20pm). Women: Zambia v Lady Cheetahs G (9:40am); Lady Cheetahs B v Lady Cheetahs W (10am); Zambia v Lady Cheetahs B (12:20pm); Lady Cheetahs B v Lady Cheetahs W (2:40pm); Lady Cheetahs W v Zambia (5:20pm). Men: Old Georgians v Harare Sports Club (10:20am); Zambia 1 v Spartans (10:40am); Matabeleland 1 v Old Hararians (11am); Zambia 2 v Botswana (10:20am); Matabeleland 2 v  Old Georgians (12:40pm); Cheetahs v Matabeleland 1 (1pm); Zambia 1 v Harare Sports Club (1:20pm); Botswana v Old Hararians (1:40pm); Spartans v OGS (3pm); Matabeleland 1 v Zambia 2 (3:20pm); Matabeleland 2 v Harare Sports Club (3:40pm); Cheetahs v Old Hararians (4pm), Zambia 1 v Matabeleland 2 (4:40pm); Zambia v Old Hararians (5pm), Spartans v Matabeleland 2 (5:40pm); Botswana v Cheetahs (6:40pm). Sunday Men: Old Georgians v Zambia 1 (9am); Harare Sports Club v Spartans (9:20am); Matabeleland 1 v Botswana (10am), Zambia 2 v Cheetahs (10:20am).