The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter SEASONED female golfer Loice Chingono has turned professional and is hopeful that the decision will help more local players to take up the challenge. Chingono turned professional last month and will be part of the Harare Classic field that will tee off against men at Chapman Golf Club from April 13 to 15. The former national team player becomes the fourth local female golfer after Claire Minter, veteran Jessie Nyakatawa and Rhoda Muridzo to take golf professionally. “I think it’s a new beginning, I am looking forward to the challenge and I hope it will help me improve my game. I have been into the sport for a while and I hope by turning professional it will give me the drive to work even harder. “I have been in the game for 12-years now and I think it was high time I move a gear up. The good thing is that there seem to be some tournaments for professionals unlike in the past recent years where there were very few events and I think that discouraged some women who may have liked to play professional golf,” said Chingono. Chingono, who has seen it all in the sport, having won several tournaments both as an individual and in the national team colours, has the guts that she will give some men a good run when they take part in professional tournaments. “I have always competed against men and I don’t think it will be a big challenge. All I will need is to remain focused and concentrate on my game. “There is not much difference as golf is an individual sport and your practice and form will determine your performances. I think I will only need to improve on my drive so that I can be up there. “if I can manage to hit long balls then my game will be perfect,” said Chingono. The athlete had a word for fellow female golfers as she believes they are not scared to take up the sport professionally but they did not have faith on tournaments. “At the meantime I will remain local while perfecting my skill and when time comes I will try to play in some Tours. I think many fellow female golfers do not take the sport professionally because they think it may affect them as there are always few tournaments on the professional circuit. “There are many good players who can compete professionally but they are reluctant to turn professional. I urge them to take up the challenge as women can do it,” added Chingono.