The Herald Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe national women’s cricket team appear to have hit the right gear after they notched up a second victory against Uganda at the Capricorn Women’s Tri-series in Windhoek, Namibia yesterday. The Lady Chevrons claimed a 22-run victory over the Victoria Pearls, to make it two wins on the bounce against the same opponents. Skipper Mary-Anne Musonda, for the third time in this tournament, won the toss and elected to bat first. They put on 127/5 in their allotted 20 overs before restricting their opponents to 105/6. Zimbabwe all-rounder Josephine Nkomo put on a Player of the Match performance with her unbeaten 43 runs (from 38 balls) and bowling figures of 2-16. She also had two catches to her name. After winning the toss yesterday, Zimbabwe’s innings didn’t get off to the perfect start they had envisaged after promoting rookie Kellis Ndlovu to open the innings with Chipo Mugeri-Tiripano, who had enjoyed top form in the first two matches. They were down 15/2, with both openers out inside two overs. With captain Musonda (21) falling to an unfortunate dismissal after she was adjudged to have obstructed the field, and Modester Mupachikwa (6) also out, Nkomo and Sharne Mayers gave Zimbabwe more control of the game when they added 63 runs for the fifth wicket. Mayers scored 36 runs from 38 deliveries, and struck three boundaries and a six. Nkomo also faced the number of balls and hit identical boundaries as she helped Zimbabwe post a competitive total. The Zimbabwean bowlers performed well yesterday to prevent an upset from the determined Ugandans, who fell just short in the chase. Nkomo was the pick of the bowlers with her 2-16 while new kid on the block Michelle Mavunga continued with her good form after taking 2-22. There was also a wicket each for Anesu Mushangwe and Loryn Phiri. “I thought today, it was a better game,” said Zimbabwe captain, Musonda. “Even if you look at our dismissals, the guys were really trying. I would rather have the guys really trying than the other way round. I thought the day started well. We won the toss, we wanted to bat and we batted. “My dismissal was unfortunate but Sharne and Josephine came to the party. Even Chipo and Kellies when they started, they were looking positive. These are the things we have been talking about in the changing room,” said Musonda. Zimbabwe moved level on the log standings with the hosts Namibia. They have four points apiece ahead of the two teams’ clash today. Zimbabwe had stumbled in their opening match of the tournament against the Capricorn Eagles of Namibia, who triumphed by seven wickets. Gary Brent’s side have been working on their shortcomings and they hope to hit back on their hosts today. Result: Zimbabwe win by 22 runs Zimbabwe 127/5 in 20 overs (Josephine Nkomo 43*, Sharne Mayers 38, Mary-Anne Musonda 21; Patricia Malemikia 2-15 and Concy Aweko 1-26.) Uganda 105/6 in 20 overs (Janet Mbabazi 42*, Phiona Khulume 19; Josephine Nkomo 2-16, Michelle Mavunga 2-22)