The Herald Latwell Nyangu Youth Interactive Writer Conquering your exams is just the beginning and it is a great deal for a student. We all remember the exam period in schools. The daunting experience of entering the examination hall, finding an exam slip on the exam desk, filling in your details and taking a seat with a booklet with blank paper and unknown questions. The sweaty hand palms and sickness feeling that seems to have made you forget everything that you have been revising for over the last previous few weeks. In my case, I have always been a bit last minute and even got into the exam, five minutes later than anyone else (but please don’t try this). In all those years of school, college and university I always wondered what the main purpose was of exams. What would this stress achieve later in our lives? Luckily I am able to look into all this and finally learn that the stressful weeks truly are beneficial. With euphoria catching up with many students, especially the O -Levels whose results came out on Tuesday, I am witnessing many celebrations. These results came after A Levels were also released recently. With pride I say congratulations to those who scored highest and did very well. You have run the course and passed the exams. Remember to celebrate when you have passed. Many students wish there was nothing like exams because of fear of failure. An exam is very important because it creates a sense of duty among the students to study, recall and write what they have studied coherently. The importance of exams can no t be overstated because it has done students more good than harm. But there is no secret to success. It is the result of preparation, hard work and learning from failure. Well done! While not all deserve to celebrate due to different levels of passing, some will be mourning. How difficult it is to take home the unpleasant results, worse when you have been pushed to work hard? Results are always scary and it’s one thing that makes me feel anxious as an individual, whether it’s academic or an interview or anything that brings results. Sometimes life gets in the way. It’s not all over if you flunked the exams or lost out on your top choice. You won’t be the only one! Take a deep breath and recover before you do anything else. There are plenty of options to take next, and there’s no shame in resitting.  It feels unfair when it seems like all your mates are going one way, but remember no two journeys are the same and your next course will be there when you’re ready to take it. Many people  have experienced the feeling of passing an exam. I have too. I had much fun when I would check my results on the exams portal. A little motivation can go a long way, so don’t hold back when you put up your best efforts for any test or exam, in my view. Praise yourself or let those around you celebrate with you wholeheartedly and express how proud they are for you. Social media is currently awash with results from students who did exceptionally well. I have seen many but the one with 20 As from Nyangani High School has caught my attention, that’s incredible and captivating. Best results are attained through hard work and applaud the hardworking students with sincere words, thank them for their dedication, and acknowledge their efforts on meticulous preparation. Congratulate them on their success and tell them how glad you are for their incredible achievement! Complement them for their extraordinary results and make them feel important. When you pass, you feel on top of the world. The awesomeness of the feeling is indescribable. You think that you are the smartest, most intelligent guy who doesn’t need to be engrossed in the books as you have so much understanding that you can pass the exam even without studying. For some, the day which starts with books, ends with books. Until the books ‘cry out’ to stop, we never leave. Our minds tell us to study each word, each line and every page to study thoroughly, but after sometime we feel tired and give up in between; and recognise that it was a mistake, later in the exam hall. Students are punished for the rest of their lives for not making good grades. Straight As can mean the difference between an Ivy-League education and a local community college, as well as all of the variations in between. The shrinking labour market and employers’ obsession with  talent have increased the challenges for students in universities to achieve higher academic grades for improved employability. Exams are very important and many students are studying because of exams. Through exams, students can obtain knowledge. It evaluates student’s skills and enables them to overcome their nerves. Exams therefore, are an efficient way to measure knowledge and they  help to measure how much students have learned. Actually exams promote competition among students as well as developing one’s personality and confidence. And exams have the major role of providing necessary qualities in life such as hard work, patience, creativity and leadership. In this regard exams should be compulsory.  They  judge us on how much we have understood and how capable we are. Exams not only help to polish the writing skills, but also help one to improve their analytic skills and expand the outlook they have on the world. Many students get irritated or even intimidated by the thought of  exams because they have a negative perception  or lack understanding of the significance of exams. An exam is just a test to check if you have been able to understand what you have been learning, but make sure that life takes a similar test and will have to work hard to clear that. Best of luck!