The Herald LONDON. — Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp ordered his players to be “as annoying as possible” as they chased down Manchester City in the hunt for the silverware that could bring them a historic quadruple. Klopp issued his statement when Liverpool made their attempt to play on City’s nerves in an English Premier League football title race that, at one point, looked to turn into a procession for Pep Guardiola’s reigning champions. Liverpool have been as good as their manager’s word and they were certainly able to get under City’s skin, while receiving a turbo-charge in the chase towards history with a 3-2 win in the FA Cup semi-final at Wembley on Saturday. If this heavyweight sporting duel is reaching such a defining phase that almost every incident is forensically investigated to decipher who holds the psychological advantage, this was certainly a strike to Liverpool. Not a decisive one. City are too good, still in the lead in the title race and have a Champions League semi-final against Real Madrid to come, but a strike nonetheless. City will not be derailed by a single setback and Guardiola’s team selection hinted at the FA Cup not exactly being top of his list of priorities, but Liverpool will take confidence and use this to bolster their own efforts. Liverpool’s supremacy in the first 45 minutes must strengthen belief that City’s one-point lead in the league can be overhauled while, with the Carabao Cup secured and a Champions League semi-final against Villarreal to come, the history books beckon. Klopp may try to keep a lid on the excitement and expectation (or he may not) but there is no escaping reality and there must surely be a feeling inside Liverpool’s camp that the so-called impossible might just be possible. And, to add to the intrigue, City will be Liverpool’s most formidable obstacle with title ambitions of their own and that elusive first Champions League win coming tantalisingly into view. These are Europe’s two outstanding sides. If the spectacular 2-2 draw at Etihad Stadium six days before this Wembley meeting set the stage for the climax of the season – where a Champions League final confrontation remains very much a possibility – then this semi-final triumph can be counted as first blood to Liverpool. If that draw was a game of fine margins when two top-class sides simply could not be separated, here Liverpool overwhelmed City in a first 45 minutes that effectively won the game, no matter that Pep Guardiola’s side greatly improved after the break. — BBC Sport.