The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter NEWLY-APPOINTED Ngezi Platinum Stars head coach Benjani Mwaruwari has been cleared by ZIFA to begin his duties and could be in charge tomorrow when the Mhondoro side face Bulawayo Chiefs in a Castle Lager Premiership match at Luveve. Mwaruwari, who was unveiled by the ambitious platinum mining side during the week, was given a waiver to sit on the bench as he does not have the requisite CAF A Licence. He holds a UEFA A license. Domestic football regulations, under the guidance of the CAF club licensing protocols, state that only those coaches with CAF A license are allowed to sit on the bench as head coach in the domestic Premiership matches. The move is meant to bring standardization as well as to set and promote benchmarks regarding coaching on the continent and help recognise African coaches for their knowledge and experience. However, there is room for special waivers in the case of local coaches, but they will not be allowed by CAF to participate in the continental inter-club competitions in the event their clubs qualify. A ZIFA official yesterday confirmed that Mwaruwari has been granted the special waiver. “The CAF Club Licensing regulations are very clear on coaches, but there are cases that can be looked into individually. In this particular case, Benjani was cleared yesterday (on Thursday). So he can sit on the bench without any challenges. “Remember, ZIFA is for the development of locals. We are not there to crush potential but to support in the best way possible. So those that have attained other higher qualifications or have practiced at the highest level may be considered for the exemptions. “But we encourage them in future to consider standardizing their qualifications because CAF are unflinching when teams qualify for the interclub competitions.” Unfortunately, Zimbabwe have not been able to hold the CAF A coaching courses in recent years. About 72 local coaches hold the qualification. But ZIFA have since given exemptions to the likes of Chicken Inn’s Joey Antipas, Luke Petros of Whawha, Moses Chunga, Amin Soma-Phiri, Agent Sawu, Shadreck Mugurasave of Tenax and Bulawayo Chiefs’ returning assistant coach Thulani Sibanda. One of Mwaruwari’s newly-appointed assistants Bongani Mafu and goalkeepers coach Cosmas “Tsano” Zulu also have exemptions. Mafu is a holder of a UEFA B licence and will work alongside Takesure Chiragwi, who held fort at Ngezi Platinum Stars in acting capacity following the resignation of Rodwell Dhlakama last month. Former Zimbabwe international Tinashe Nengomasha has been roped in as the team manager. Despite this being his first coaching job at club level, Mwaruwari believes he is ready for the challenge, revealing that he is inspired by Aston Villa coach Steve Gerrard. “I have seen a lot of coaches that have come from being players going straight into coaching and doing well. Gerrard did well in his first job, but I am not saying I will do what Gerrard did, but I am saying that if you have been given the opportunity then you have to take it,” said Mwaruwari. He said he is looking forward to the start of his coaching career and is hopeful of meeting with the same success he enjoyed in his playing career. “They told me what they want and I am excited to be part of this journey. I did my coaching badges so that I can be a coach and it is fortunate that I am starting here at a big team. I would like to win games and also win trophies while at the same time we try to balance it with developing players for the future.”