The Herald LONDON. — Manchester City and Liverpool must quickly turn their focus from Champions League glory to the battle for the English Premier League football title, with no room for error in tricky away trips today. City, who hold a one-point advantage at the top of the table with five games remaining, travel to Leeds, who are also in need of the points to guarantee survival. Liverpool can go top for a few hours at least if they win at Newcastle, but the Magpies have won their last six home games to storm into the top half of the table since beginning to splash the cash of the Saudi sovereign wealth fund in January. The English Premier League’s top two remain on course to end their season with another showdown in the Champions League final after seeing off Spanish opposition in contrasting fashion in midweek. City should have put Real Madrid out of sight in a thrilling 4-3 win over the 13-time European champions, while Goliath got the better of David as Liverpool beat Villarreal 2-0. Champions League considerations could play a major role in the team selection of both title contenders. Jurgen Klopp gave Liverpool fans even more cause for celebration by extending his contract at Anfield for a further two years to 2026 on Thursday. However, the German is far from happy at the scheduling of a lunch-time kick-off just three days after a Champions League semi-final. “It’s brutal but it’s fine. It’s the best situation you can have,” said Klopp. City boss Pep Guardiola has a tough balancing act in selecting his side for what is expected to be an energy-sapping visit to Elland Road before their blockbuster return leg at the Santiago Bernabeu. Leeds are unbeaten in five games, but are just five points clear of the relegation zone ahead of a tough run-in, with Arsenal and Chelsea to come after the visit of City. English Premiership Fixtures Today: Newcastle v Liverpool (1:30pm); Southampton v Crystal Palace; Aston Villa v Norwich; Wolves v Brighton; Watford v Burnley (all 4pm); Leeds v Manchester City (6:30pm). Tomorrow: Everton v Chelsea; Tottenham v Leicester (both 3pm); West Ham v Arsenal (5:30pm). Monday Manchester United v Brentford (1900) — AFP.