The Herald MELBOURNE. — Charles Leclerc took a dominant victory in the Australian Grand Prix yesterday to move into a commanding position in the Fornula One World Championship. The world championship leader from Monaco started from pole, held his position at the first turn and never looked back, scorching round the 58-lap Albert Park circuit to take the chequered flag by a massive 20.5 seconds. Red Bull’s Sergio Perez was second with George Russell an encouraging third for the struggling Mercedes and his seven-time world champion teammate Lewis Hamilton fourth. “It’s amazing, the car was incredible today. What a race and what a pace today,” said Leclerc after clocking a fourth career win and second of the season. “Honestly, what a car today. I did a good job all weekend but it’s not possible without the car. I’m just so happy. “Obviously we have only had three races so it’s difficult to think of the championship but we have a very strong car and a reliable car. It’s great to be back in this position,” he added. The Mclarens of Lando Norris and Daniel Riccardo were fifth and sixth. Alpine’s Esteban Ocon came seventh ahead of Valtteri Bottas in an Alfa Romeo, with Pierre Gasly’s AlphaTauri and Alex Albon’s Williams rounding out the top 10. But there was disaster for Red Bull’s Max Verstappen, the winner two weeks ago in Saudi Arabia, who pulled over on lap 39 when second, saying on the team radio: “I smell some weird fluid.” The Ferrari driver Leclerc was in total control of the race when his main rival Max Verstappen retired with a technical failure on his Red Bull at two-thirds distance. Verstappen is 46 points – almost two clear wins – behind Leclerc after just three races of the season, in two of which the Red Bull has failed to finish. Red Bull’s Perez was second after winning battles with Mercedes drivers Russell and Hamilton. Remarkably, in the context of Mercedes’ disappointing start to the season, Russell is second in the drivers’ championship at this early stage and Mercedes second in the constructors’ chase. Leclerc’s win was his second of the season and by far the most imposing performance by any driver so far. Red Bull had hopes of taking the fight to Leclerc, as Verstappen did on his way to victory in the last race in Saudi Arabia, but they were in vain. Leclerc won pole position with the biggest margin of the season so far. His team-mate Carlos Sainz caused an early safety car when he lost control of his car trying to make an overtaking move at Turn Nine after a bad start from a poor grid position. When racing resumed, Leclerc first eased away from Verstappen and then bolted into the distance as the Red Bull driver began to suffer from tyre problems. A second safety car, this time caused by a crash by Sebastian Vettel on a dire weekend for his Aston Martin team, gave Verstappen a second chance. Leclerc, who had not long before made his pit stop for fresh tyres, struggled for tyre temperature on the re-start and Verstappen challenged him into Turn One, but the Ferrari held him off and then proceeded to pull out another significant gap, moving clear at about half a second a lap, before the world champion ran into trouble. Leclerc was more than seven seconds in the lead — a margin built in 11 laps — when Verstappen complained he could “smell some weird fluid” and he was told to pull off the track. — BBC Sport.