The Herald JOHANNESBURG.  — Former SuperSport United head coach, Kaitano Tembo is said to have attracted interest from a few teams in his homeland of Zimbabwe. But the 51-year-old is understood to not be interested in coaching in Zimbabwe. The former Zimbabwe international was fired from Matsatsantsa A Pitori this month and at this point, he might continue to be jobless if he does not consider the coaching gigs from his country. “The standard of the South African Premier Soccer League is very high and it would be taking a step back if Tembo goes to Zimbabwe. The only offer we might entertain is if the job is that of being the head coach of the Zimbabwean national team,” said a source close to Tembo’s camp. Meanwhile, as reported Tembo recently went for an interview for the co-head coach job at Sekhukhune United, but lost out on the post to Owen Da Gama. Tembo believes he left DStv Premiership side SuperSport United a better person and a better coach. The former Warriors defender parted ways with the Pretoria-based outfit two weeks ago after 23 years, having been a player, assistant coach and head coach. Tembo believes the journey at Matsatsantsa might have come to an end, but it’s one he is very proud of. “I leave this organisation a better coach and a better person, and feel prepared for the next chapter in my career,” Tembo recently said in a statement. “SuperSport United has been my home and family for the past 23 years and I’m very proud of the personal and professional growth the club has afforded me,” he added. “As much as I am disappointed, when you look back over the years I can’t lose sight of the fact that the club looked after me very well. “The club spent so much time on me, they have looked after me very well all these years and they have played a huge role in my life as a human being and career as a player and coach. I appreciate the role they played in my life and I leave a better person than I was when I arrived more than 20 years ago. There are no hard feelings towards anyone at the club.” He added: “Obviously having been at the club for this long, it was a disappointment especially leaving the project that we started where we were using a lot of young players. “I was very excited about the project because it was building for the future and it was for the long term. There are very good and exciting young players who we promoted and we gave them a lot of game time to help with their development. “You can look at some of the games that we lost, we showed that there is quality in the team but when you use a lot of young players sometimes there is a lack of consistency. “Sometimes there is a lack of leadership in certain areas but I was happy with what we had.” — The Citizen