The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter THe Highlanders pair of Silas Ngala and Rahman Kutsanzira has opted for diplomacy ahead of Bosso’s Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match against the duo’s former team FC Platinum at Mandava this afternoon. The two players were key figures for the Zvishavane team before they parted ways early this year. That both Kutsanzira and Ngala clearly still have some gas in their tanks means focus will certainly be on them when the Bulawayo giants step on the Mandava turf. Fittingly, the Bosso management brought them before the press in Thursday’s media briefing ahead of the match day 12’s biggest fixture. But, rather than stocking the fire, the two elected to be diplomatic in their assessment of the fixture. “It’s going to be a tough match but we are working very hard, we will see on Saturday (today). “Football is the same both at FC Platinum and Highlanders. We will play to our potential, the boys are happy and ready,” said Kutsanzira. The former CAPS United utility player will certainly be one of the players Norman Mapeza will be concerned about having coached him for over three years in Zvishavane. Kutsanzira, who can play as a winger, defender or midfielder, was almost always a starter under Mapeza and rumour has it that the player left FC Platinum without the consent of the former Warriors captain. Just last October, Mapeza, who was the Warriors interim coach until Zimbabwe’s elimination from the African Cup of Nations in Cameroon in January, included and even played Kutsanzira in a back-to-back 2022 World Cup qualifiers against Ghana. Kutsanzira was a surprise exclusion from the squad that took part in the AFCON finals in Cameroon with Mapeza selecting Nkana’s Takudzwa Chimwemwe and Dynamos’ Godknows Murwira for the right-back position. And naturally, Kutsanzira would have a point or two to prove against his former team but he chose to keep his answers simple. Ngala, on the other hand, said Bosso should go to Zvishavane with their eyes on the goal. He said he wasn’t treating the match against FC Platinum differently as they are just like any other team in the top-flight league. The big striker has been trending this week after his goal buried Dynamos in the Presidential Independence Day Trophy final at Barbourfields on Monday. The former Manica Diamonds striker didn’t make a huge impact at the Zvishavane team during his short stint there and he had been touted to make a statement this season before he was released. “Personally I think playing against FC Platinum is just like playing any other match. It is the same feeling just like playing Dynamos, Herentals and all the other teams. “I just hope we will go there and get the points. It is a tough match that we are facing and of course I am a striker, I have to score, if do not score, I have to assist and help my team win matches,” Ngala said. With Bosso coach Mandla “Lulu” Mpofu confident their win against Dynamos on Monday would spur them in the league, Highlanders are expected to raise their game today. The match will be streamed live on Zimpapers Television Network.