The Herald Business Reporter A number of highly rated experts will present at the 2022 Zimbabwe Architectural Conference and awards dinner, which is expected to be headlined by Environment, Climate, Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Mangaliso Ndlovu, in Harare today. Local Government and Public Works Minister, July Moyo, is the host minister. The IAZ Conference and awards dinner is an annual event and it will run under the theme, “Climate Change: Adaptation and Mitigation Measures in the Built Environment”. IAZ president, Architect Tsitsi Dzvukamanja, yesterday said the conference will provide insights into how climate change impacts the architectural practice and built environment – in terms of quality, efficiency and social value – and create business opportunities. The conference brings together architects working in practices of different scales across sectors and will be graced by seasoned speakers across the industry, both local and international. “With the focus on climate change, we are happy to provide the unique platform for practising architects, academics/researchers, manufacturers, among others who are coming from various parts of the country to exchange their knowledge and experiences on the emerging theme in architecture today in Zimbabwe and beyond,” she said. “Excessive amounts of carbon dioxide undoubtedly lead to climate change, which directly affects both the natural and the built environment. Observing the impact of climate change on the construction industry, this conference examines sustainable architectural design as a tool to mitigate climate change. “Our hope as the custodians of architecture in Zimbabwe is that through this conference, we can not only highlight the role architects play within the built environment but also bring to light the challenges presented by climate change, and how we are working to mitigate these challenges as key players in construction.” Apart from the ministers, other speakers at the conference include Green Building Council of Zimbabwe chairman and CEO for Integrated Properties Dr Mike Juru, Director General and Secretary to Standards Association of Zimbabwe Dr Eve Gadzikwa, and UNESCO chair on Earthen Architecture Professor Rowland Keable. Dr Juru is expected to present on the development of green building standards in Zimbabwe. IAZ is a professional body for architects in Zimbabwe, founded for the advancement of architecture under the Architects (Private) Act and to drive excellence within the profession. It serves its members and society to deliver better buildings and places, stronger communities and a sustainable environment.