The Herald MANCHESTER. — Manchester United have hired Erik ten Hag as its fifth manager in nine years, with the Dutchman leaving his role at Ajax at the end of the season. Ten Hag signed a contract to 2025 with the task of bringing back the successes not seen at United since the retirement of Alex Ferguson in 2013 when the club won the last of its record 20 English titles. United has been led by two interim managers — Michael Carrick and currently Ralf Rangnick — since Ole Gunnar Solskjaer was fired in November. Ten Hag faces a big rebuilding job at United, which has slipped way behind rivals Manchester City and Liverpool despite the club continuing to spend heavily on players. The three-time European champion might not even return to the Champions League next season. United are three points out of the English Premier League’s top four with five games remaining and hasn’t won a trophy since beating Ajax in the Europa League final in 2017. Ten Hag took over as Ajax coach later that year, and led the team to two Eredivisie titles as well as the Champions League semi-finals in 2019. Ten Hag will become United’s fifth permanent manager since Sir Alex Ferguson retired in 2013. United’s Director of Football, John Murtough, said: “During the past four years at Ajax, Erik has proved himself to be one of the most exciting and successful coaches in Europe, renowned for his team’s attractive, attacking football and commitment to youth. “In our conversations with Erik leading up to this appointment, we were deeply impressed with his long-term vision for returning Manchester United to the level we want to be competing at, and his drive and determination to achieve that. “We wish Erik the best of luck as he focuses on achieving a successful end to the season at Ajax and look forward to welcoming him to Manchester United this summer.” Ten Hag told United’s official website: “It is a great honour to be appointed manager of Manchester United and I am hugely excited by the challenge ahead. I know the history of this great club and the passion of the fans, and I am absolutely determined to develop a team capable of delivering the success they deserve. “It will be difficult to leave Ajax after these incredible years, and I can assure our fans of my complete commitment and focus on bringing this season to a successful conclusion before I move to Manchester United.” The Dutchman becomes United’s fifth permanent manager of the post-Sir Alex Ferguson era, following in the footsteps of David Moyes, Louis van Gaal, Jose Mourinho and Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. Rangnick is currently in interim charge of the Red Devils after Solskjaer’s sacking last November. The veteran German boss will move upstairs into a consultancy role at the end of the season. Ten Hag will have plenty to sort through when he finally takes over at Old Trafford, with the futures of players like Paul Pogba and Cristiano Ronaldo among his top priorities. He will also be hoping he assumes control of a side in the Champions League, although that is far from a certainty after Tuesday night’s 4-0 drubbing against Liverpool. United are three points adrift of Tottenham in fourth, having played a game more than Antonio Conte’s side. Rangnick’s team face Arsenal next tomorrow in a crunch game in the race for a seat at Europe’s top table next season. United are sixth in the English Premier League with five games remaining this season, three points behind Tottenham, who occupy the fourth Champions League spot. Ajax are top of the Dutch Eredivisie, four points clear of PSV Eindhoven, with five matches remaining, but lost to their rivals in the Dutch Cup final. Ten Hag, Ajax head coach since December 2017, led them to the league and cup double in 2018-19 and 2020-21. — AFP.