The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter MOUNTAINEERS are standing on the verge of sealing a domestic cricket double as they clash with Alliance Health Eagles in the final of the Domestic T20 Competition at Harare Sports Club today. The match is set to start at 1:30pm and, in a bid to boost the attendance figures, Zimbabwe Cricket have announced that entrance will be free to fully vaccinated supporters, who bring proof of having received the double jab against Covid-19. All eyes will be on Mountaineers who were recently crowned kings of the Pro50 Championship following a dominant performance in the one-day game. And they could put the icing on the cake if they can continue with their untainted winning record in this final of the shortest version. In fact, they could have been talking about a treble had they played their cards right in their decisive match of the first class Logan Cup, which they only needed to avoid defeat to bag the trophy. However, they somehow lost the game to Rocks and, in that painful process, surrendered the title to Tuskers, who had a bye in the final round. The Mutare-based franchise, however, have since atoned for the disappointment by winning the one-day Pro50 Championship and they have another good chance for more silverware after landing into another deserved final in the T20 tournament. They will go into the final high in confidence following a perfect run in the round-robin games in which they swept all before them. They faced Eagles in their first game of the competition and claimed an easy six-wicket victory after bowling out their opponents for 93 runs before racing to 94 for the loss of four wickets, and with 30 balls remaining. They went on to beat Rhinos by two runs, in a rain-affected match, before accounting for Rocks by 13 runs via the Duckworth/Lewis Method. Mountaineers then sounded a serious warning ahead of the final by outplaying defending champions Tuskers by eight wickets. Their captain Kevin Kasuza has done well with the bat at the top while Tony Munyonga has come in handy in most times in the middle order. Mountaineers will be hoping for improved fortunes for former national team player PJ Moor who has struggled for consistency while opening the innings in this competition. They also have match winners in national team all-rounder Donald Tiripano and the Masakadza brothers — Shingi and Wellington, who have done well with the ball. But for Eagles, a chance for a smash and grab is realistic. The Stuart Matsikenyeri-coached side stormed into the final with two wins and as many defeats in the round robin matches. After losing their opening two matches against Mountaineers and Tuskers, they staged a remarkable turnaround in the final two assignments. A 48-run victory over Rhinos via the Duckworth Lewis Method brought them back in contention. And then Tinashe Kamunhukamwe’s dazzling innings of 77 runs off just 53 balls propelled them to a seven-wicket victory over Rocks on Tuesday and sealed a place in the Domestic Twenty20 Competition final.