The Herald AUGUSTA. — Former world number one golfer Tiger Woods roared a Masters warning: “I’m only here to win.” The American (46) is on the verge of a stunning comeback today — just 14 months after the car crash that almost cost him his right foot. Asked if he thinks he can equal Jack Nicklaus’ six Masters, Woods said: “I do. I don’t show up to an event unless I think I can win. So that’s the attitude I’ve had. “I love competing and I feel like if I can still compete at the highest level, I’m going to. As of right now, I am going to play. “And if I feel like I can still win, I’m going to play. But if I feel like I can’t, then you won’t see me out here.” Woods, who is wearing specially made shoes to support his ankles, was set to  play another nine holes yesterday before confirming his decision. But he claimed he would be content with his haul of Majors and joint-record 82 PGA Tour titles along with Sam Snead. He added: “There will be a day when it won’t happen and that will be when I hang it up. “But I feel like I can still do it. My recovery has been good and I’m excited about how I’ve recovered each day.” Woods did, however, admit that walking for an extended time does still cause him discomfort. He added: “I’ve had to endure pain before but this is different, a lot more traumatic. “I haven’t been in situations like this where I’ve had to walk. “I can hit it just fine. I don’t have any qualms about what I can do from a golf standpoint. It’s just that walking is the hard part. “The only flat spots out here are the 18 tee boxes. Other than that, there’s nothing flat. “Now, given the condition that my leg is in, it gets even more difficult — and 72 holes is a long road. “My surgeons gave me a chance. Now it’s up to me to endure the pain.” This could well be a final hurrah, as Woods admitted: “I don’t know how many more years I can do this. My movement probably will not get much better. “After the accident, I never left that hospital bed, even to see my living room, for three months. That was a tough road. — The Sun.