The Herald LONDON. — Liverpool can go top of the English Premier League football table today, for the first time this year, and even if it is only for a couple of hours current leaders Manchester City will be feeling the pressure. The match against Watford, managed by former Liverpool boss Roy Hodgson, is the lunch-time kick-off at Anfield with City – who were 14 points clear in February – at Burnley in the afternoon. Both games have big implications at each end of the table, with Watford (18th) and Burnley (19th) deep in the drop zone and resurgent Liverpool only a point behind defending champions City at the top. In fact, Liverpool and Manchester City resume their quest for historic trophy hauls today at the start of a season-defining month for both English Premier League title contenders. City, chasing a treble, are one point clear at the top of the table but Liverpool, with an unprecedented quadruple in their sights, are the form team after narrowing a 14-point gap between the sides in recent weeks. Jurgen Klopp and Pep Guardiola will face off twice this month, first in a potential title decider at the Etihad on April 10 before an FA Cup semi-final at Wembley the following week. Watford’s visit to Anfield and City’s trip to Burnley should on paper be gentle openers to a week that includes Champions League quarter-final action for both sides. “In the years that I have been involved in football, I never had a month so exciting like this with such important and exciting matches every three days,” said Liverpool midfielder Thiago Alcantara, formerly a Champions League winner with Barcelona and Bayern Munich. “It will be amazing.” However, Watford and Burnley are also desperately in need of points as they try to climb out of the relegation zone. Liverpool boss Klopp has a difficult balancing act after an emotionally exhausting week for many his stars involved in World Cup qualifying. English Premiership Fixtures Today: Liverpool v Watford (1:30pm); Chelsea v Brentford (4pm); Brighton v Norwich (4pm); Leeds v Southampton (4pm); Burnley v Manchester City (4pm); Wolverhampton Wanderers v Aston Villa (4pm); Manchester United v Leicester City (6:30pm). Tomorrow: West Ham v Everton (3pm); Tottenham Hotspur v Newcastle (5:30pm). Monday: Crystal Palace v Arsenal (9pm). – AFP