The Herald Godknows Hofisi Introduction The Insolvency Act (Chapter 6:07), or the Act provides for a compromise between a company and its creditors. Such a compromise provides financial relief to the company. Compromise provided for in section 147 According to section 147(1) of the Act this section applies to a company, irrespective of whether or not it is financially distressed unless it is engaged in corporate rescue proceedings in terms of this Act. In terms of section 121(f) “financially distresses” in reference to a company means that: Information contained in the compromise proposal Section 147(3) requires the compromise proposal to contain all information reasonably required to facilitate creditors in deciding whether or not to accept or reject the proposal. It must be divided into three parts, namely: Part A — background This part must contain the following minimum information: A complete list of all the material assets of the company, as well as an indication as to which assets are held as security by creditors as of the date of the proposal; Part B — proposals This part must contain the following minimum information: Part C — assumptions and conditions This part to contain, at the least, the following information: Certificate A proposal must conclude with a certificate by an authorised director or prescribed officer of the company stating that any: Approval of the plan The plan requires a minimum vote of 75  percent by creditors or class of creditors in value. If the proposal is approved the company may apply to the Court for an order approving the proposal. Filing and effect of Court order According to section 147(8) a copy of the order: Conclusion A compromise with creditors can bring about much needed financial relief. Disclaimer This simplified article is for general information purposes only and does not constitute the writer’s professional advice. Godknows (GK) Hofisi, LLB(UNISA), B.Acc(UZ), CA(Z), MBA(EBS,UK) is a legal practitioner / conveyancer, chartered accountant, corporate rescue practitioner, registered tax accountant and consultant in deal structuring and is an experienced director of companies. He writes in his personal capacity. He can be contacted on +263 772 246 900 or gohofisi@gmail.com 