The Herald Durban . – The death toll from record devastating floods in South Africa spiked further yesterday, breaching the 300 mark, a government official  said yesterday. “By the evening of 13th of April, we have been informed that the death toll from the floods disaster in KwaZulu-Natal has risen to 306 people” said Nonala Ndlovu, spokesperson for the provincial disaster management department. The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Co-operation Governance and Traditional Affairs MEC Sipho Hlomuka said there was a massive jump in fatalities, and that mop-up operations were ongoing as President Cyril Ramaphosa was in the province, criss-crossing from one affected area to the other, visibly affected by the destruction.. “The loss of human life as a result of the inclement weather conditions is one of the darkest moments in the history of our province. Hundreds of people have been left homeless with many roads, public infrastructure and homes severely damaged. “We join the families in mourning the lives that we have lost as a result of the heavy rains,” said Mr Ramaphosa. In the morning, Ramaphosa, Minister in the Presidency Mondli Gungubele, Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and Police Minister Bheki Cele joined KZN premier Sihle Zikalala, members of the provincial and national executive, member of the provincial legislature Zandile Gumede, eThekwini mayor Mxolisi Kaunda and eThekwini councillors visited disaster-hit areas. Hlomuka said the visit gave many of the affected communities hope as they deal with the trauma of losing loved ones and their homes in the incidents that occurred as a result of the heavy rains that struck large parts of Durban. He added that mop-up operations had commenced and the provincial government continued to work with the national government to ensure that relief was provided to all those that have been affected by the storms. “We wish to commend disaster management teams for the tireless work they have been doing to evacuate affected communities. Relief is being provided to residents housed in community halls across the province through collaboration with social partners and government departments. “The inclement weather conditions are expected to continue over the Easter Weekend, with the ground already saturated, any rain that takes place could cause more flooding and mudslides. Residents are urged to seek alternative accommodation or use community halls,” he said. Hlomuka added that it was important that we pulled together as a province in the face of adversity. Earlier, Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) reported that it had assisted in the recovery of 22 bodies in the aftermath of heavy rains and floods that have ravaged parts of KwaZulu-Natal since the weekend. Rusa spokesperson Prem Balram had said: “Twenty-two bodies have so far been recovered in the aftermath of floods that ravaged KwaZulu-Natal on Monday.” In Tongaat, north of Durban, some crocodiles have been washed away from a crocodile farm. Crocodile Creek Farm said  12 crocodiles were swept away by the floods. Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife, the province’s conservation authority, said that seven of the reptiles have been recaptured and that a hunt is still on the hunt for the other five. Meanwhile, Premier Zikalala has condemned the reports of looting in the province. It seems people have taken advantage of the current situation, as images and videos on social media have shown people helping themselves to goods from trucks and containers in several parts of the province. The containers were targeted as they were accessible, although many decided to brave the channels of the newly formed rivers to reach the goods.  – Agencies