The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter CHAMPIONS FC Platinum will be looking forward to continue with their winning momentum when they host giants Highlanders in a Castle Lager Premiership football encounter at Mandava this afternoon. The three-time champions had notched up two wins on the bounce before the recent Easter/Independence retreat, after accounting for basement teams Whawha and Bulawayo City, to build zest ahead of the bigger challenge against Highlanders. The three-time champions experienced a dip in form when the season resumed in February after the AFCON break. But just as they had appeared to hit the right chords, the fixtures were deferred again to accommodate the holidays last weekend. The coach Norman Mapeza, however, is hoping that his side, which has taken a new outlook this season after parting ways with a number of senior players, will be able to pick up from where they left off. “I think we needed that break because of the Independence celebrations. But somehow we had some guys who were carrying some knocks, so it was also good for them because they had time to recover. “So I think it was a blessing in disguise for us despite us going to the break on the back of those two positive results. We just hope we carry the momentum as we face Highlanders,” said Mapeza. The last time the teams met, FC Platinum enjoyed a 1-0 win over the Bulawayo giants in the quarter-finals of the Chibuku Super Cup. Bosso were the holders but FC Platinum went all the way and won the silverware during the season-opening tournament. But Highlanders will come into the match with a spring in their step following the morale-boosting win over bitter rivals Dynamos in the Presidential Independence Day Trophy final last Monday. Former FC Platinum striker Stanley Ngala scored the solitary goal. Ngala, who was one of the several players deemed excess baggage during the January window, is looking forward to facing his former paymasters for the first time. The striker has struggled for goals since his arrival, only banging in one goal in 11 league games, and he believes the beautiful strike against DeMbare in the Uhuru Cup could have given him the spark he needed. “I’ll be happy if we collect maximum points in Zvishavane. It’s not that I’ll be going there on a revenge mission because they shipped me out, but I want us to win as a team. “My job as a striker is to score, but if I fail to score, I have to create scoring opportunities and help the team. That’s (winning) what I want on Saturday, to bring home maximum points,” Ngala said. Highlanders, however, have been hit by injuries in their camp with midfielder Adrian Silla, Nqobizitha Masuku and Rahman Kutsanzira doubtful for the trip to Mandava. Ray Lunga, who will only start training after two weeks, has already been ruled out. Highlanders coach Mandla Mpofu challenged his charges to duplicate the commitment they displayed against Dynamos where they showed zeal to play and win. “FC Platinum are a big side because they’ve won almost everything on the local scene and for that they deserve a big club tag. We know they like passing the ball around like we do and we have to plan adequately for the game. “Our play has improved a lot and I want my players to take the same winning attitude that they showed in our last game against Dynamos. “I think if we stick to our game plan, be disciplined in managing the game, then we can come out with a positive result. We want to win this game and it’s possible to win it,” said Mpofu. Meanwhile, FC Platinum announced they promoted two more players from their junior ranks as they prepare for the high-profile clash against Highlanders. Midfielders Tatenda Jamu (19) and Beven Kaitano (18) joined the senior team from the FC Platinum Under-19 side that plays in the ZIFA Central Region Division One league. The platinum miners’ coach Mapeza said the duo were the only signings for his side during the recent transfer window. “We just added those two youngsters who came from the Under-19s. For now, we just concentrate on the guys we have and then we will see again. “If we manage to get another window then we might look around and see in terms of beefing up our squad,. The platinum miners have shifted focus to young players as the club seeks to derive value from the international transfer market. Recently they parted ways with nearly a dozen senior players. FC Platinum have apparently adopted a new strategy of treating football as a business. This could be the result of their partnership with Spanish La Liga club Real Betis. Last year they brought in a number of young players from the junior ranks, who included Thandolwenkosi Ngwenya, Oscar Bhebhe, Thubelihle Ndlovu, Kelvin Mangiza and Peace Chivhunduko. They also have former Zimbabwe youth international Panashe Mutimbanyoka (20) leading their attack this season. Castle Lager Premiership Fixtures: Today: Chicken Inn v Bulawayo City (Luveve), ZPC Kariba v Ngezi Platinum (Nyamhunga), FC Platinum v Highlanders (Mandava), Harare City v Black Rhinos (NSS), Tenax v Yadah (Sakubva) Tomorrow: Dynamos v Manica Diamond (NSS), Triangle v CAPS United (Gibbo), Bulawayo Chiefs v Whawha (Barbourfields), Cranborne Bullets v Herentals (Sakubva)