The Herald MELBOURNE. — Rafael Nadal won a record 21st career Grand Slam title by coming from two sets down to beat world No. 2 Daniil Medvedev in a thrilling Australian Open tennis final yesterday. Nadal has become the most successful player in the history of men’s professional tennis — thanks to the greatest comeback of his sensational career. Spain’s racket king required five hours and 24 minutes of pulsating action to break down the will of world No. 2 Daniil Medvedev in the most epic of Australian Open finals. The 35-year-old recorded a 2-6, 6-7 (5-7), 6-4, 6-4, 7-5 victory to pick up his second title in Melbourne and now sits top of the men’s all-time titles list having won one more than rivals Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer, who both sit on 20 Grand Slams. If you needed any confirmation this match would be a long one then Nadal’s opening service game of seven minutes was proof. Medevedev had discussed how the pressure was more on his opponent in the lead up to the final and that was certainly evident in the early stages, the Russian winning eight straight points on Nadal’s serve to take a 5-2 lead. That soon turned into five games in a row as Medvedev took the first set comfortably with Nadal yet to find his rhythm and struggling to cope with his opponent’s athleticism around the court. Nadal’s devastating forehand that so often leaves the man on the other side of net unable to respond, was coming up against a 25-year-old returning his every ball and the Spaniard could be seen looking to his box for answers from his coaches at the start of the second set. He wasn’t going to roll over though was he? Nadal set himself two break points after an incredible 40-shot rally ended with a stunning backhand drop shot and he sent the crowd wild as he soon took a 3-1 lead. Medvedev responded with a break of his own at the next opportunity before Nadal secured a double break, a combination of a delightful slice and the world No. 2 stumbling, taking him to within one game of levelling the scores. In the ninth game of the second set, with Nadal leading 5-3 and aiming for parity, there was a major security breach which could have overshadowed the entire occasion. An intruder ran on to the court but was swiftly tackled and dragged away by quick-reacting guards — while other personnel immediately ran over to protect the players. The unwelcome individual was carrying a sign saying ‘’ABOLISH REFUGEES DETENTION’’ but the moment to protest to a global audience was denied as TV cameras panned away. After a brief interruption when an intruder ran onto court as Nadal attempted to save break point, Medvedev broke back with a quick service game to hold to level the scores. Medvedev went on to take a cagey tie-break and another huge step towards the trophy — the last time Nadal won a best-of-five-set match from two sets down came in 2007, when he beat Mikhail Youzhny in the fourth round at Wimbledon. Nadal was making things difficult for himself by missing easy winners and presenting Medvedev with the opportunity to dominate rallies. Something needed to change for the veteran. But Medvedev needed to alter little from his game. In fact, he was adding to his game, an acrobatic backhand down the line set up three break points in the sixth game of the third set, only to see Nadal eventually hold. A change did come for Nadal, he broke for 5-4 to serve for the set to which he did, pulling out a rare backhand winner on route to taking the third and showing exactly why he’s one of the toughest competitors in sport. Into the fourth and Medvedev double faulted down break point in the third game, before sarcastically applauding and giving the crowd a thumbs up, and then being visited by the trainer for some treatment on his left thigh. — AFP. 