The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga
Sports Reporter
KUDAKWASHE “Take Money” Chiwandire’s much anticipated World Boxing Council  interim super-bantamweight world championship fight against Zambian Catherine Phiri, which was set for January 29 at the Government Complex in Lusaka, has been postponed to a later date. The bout was moved to February 26 as its sponsors said they need more time to bring in more corporate sponsors. The 25-year-old mother of three, Chiwandire, will become the first Zimbabwean female boxer to challenge for a top WBC belt. Chiwandire has been forced to make some adjustments to her training programme as she has to loosen up and her coach, Clyde Musonda, said they are a bit disappointed with the latest developments. “We are a bit disappointed on the development as we have been in camp for two months. We need to go back to the drawing board and map the way forward. “The postponement may come as a blessing in disguise as we are also appealing to the corporate world to help us as we are self-funding for camp and diet. “She (Chiwandire) has been working hard for the challenge and we sat down with her and I believe she understood that it happens in the sport. I am grateful that she accepted the situation and has since moved on,” said Musonda. Chiwandire has been training twice a day, under the watchful eye of veteran coach Musonda, as she was aware of the task ahead. It’s a make-or-break fight for the Highfield-bred pugilist who will come up against an experienced Phiri, who will have the advantage of fighting on home soil. Phiri (34) belongs to Oriental Quarries Boxing Promotions, who were once the handlers of Zimbabwean boxer Charles Manyuchi when his career soared between 2015 and 2017. Phiri has 20 bouts under her name, during which she won 16 and lost just four fights. Her last fight was a loss to Fatuma Zarika of Kenya in a WBC super-bantamweight fight held at the Kenyatta International Conference Centre in Nairobi on March 23, 2019. Chiwandire, who temporarily quit boxing in 2020 when coronavirus hit the industry, has no sponsors as female boxing in Zimbabwe lacks adequate support. While Manyuchi has often received massive financial support whenever he is fighting, there has been little done for female boxers such as Chiwandire.