The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter THERE will be no time to rest for Zimbabwe internationals — Jordan Zemura and Admiral Muskwe —who are expected to plunge into English Championship football battles after their arrival from the African Cup of Nations tournament. AFC Bournemouth manager, Scott Parker, cannot wait to have utility man Zemura ahead of this evening’s clash with Hull City, while Muskwe is expected to play a part when Luton Town travel to Sheffield United. The England-based pair was expected to leave Cameroon yesterday after featuring for Zimbabwe in the AFCON tournament for the first time in their careers. AFC Bournemouth manager Parker indicated that he cannot wait to have Zemura back and was hopeful that he would start against Sheffield United. Interestingly, the Zimbabwe technical team did not see the value when he arrived ahead of the crucial encounter with Malawi, where he started off on the bench and was introduced late in the second-half when the game was already lost. The dreadlocked player then featured for 75 minutes when Zimbabwe beat Guinea 2-1 in the last group game of the failed AFCON campaign in Cameroon. But with Norman Mapeza’s side now out of the competition, the left-back will return to the club, with Parker hopeful he will be available for selection this evening. “It was a very proud moment for JZ (Jordan Zemura). He was very excited to go away and represent his country,” said Parker. “It was disappointing overall that they didn’t manage to qualify, but a really proud moment for him and hopefully many more moments like that in his career. “He isn’t back at the moment; he comes back shortly so we’ll see how he is. Hopefully he will be available, but we’ll see how he travels and make a call on that. “The group have had a strong week so I’ll see how it fits and how it works with the group, but, as I say, I’m hoping he’ll be available in some capacity.” Bournemouth will be looking to return to their winning ways following the 2-3 defeat to Muskwe’s Luton Town in their last match. Cherries development squad boss Shaun Cooper also spoke of his pride in seeing Zemura representing Zimbabwe at the African Cup of Nations. The 22-year-old left-back made his professional debut for Cherries last season, after graduating from the Under-21s, but has become the first-choice in his position this campaign. “It’s great to see what Jordan’s done at the club,” Cooper told the club website. “He had a real impact when he arrived with his personality, he got on with the boys straight away and his attributes as a player were clear to see. “I think he’s gone strength to strength and it’s great to see where he is now, playing in a major tournament like that. “There’s still room for growth in Jordan which is an exciting thing, he’s a very level-headed young man, he loves everything about being a footballer and doesn’t take it for granted. “He’s certainly going to work hard to take him where his potential could take him.” Luton Town are also looking to have Muskwe in their team this evening. The club’s boss Nathan Jones told “Luton Today” that he was hopeful the striker would be back with the squad in time for the trip to Sheffield United after flying back from the African Cup of Nations tournament. The 23-year-old missed Luton’s last three games against Harrogate, Bournemouth and Reading following his participation in the AFCON tournament for Zimbabwe. Muskwe was an unused substitute in the first game against Senegal and played the final 12 minutes of the 2-1 loss against Malawi. The former Leicester forward started the final fixture with Guinea where he featured 75 minutes in the 2-1 victory. “Yes, they had a good last game but they’ve gone out so he’s back with us and hopefully available. “He’s a bit more game ready, so hopefully he slept on the plane as he’ll be straight into training,” said Jones. Although Zimbabwe could not make it into the last 16, Muskwe was proud of the Warriors’ displays. “Our performances didn’t warrant leaving the tournament so soon,” he tweeted. 