The Herald Michael Tome  Business Reporter PACIFIC Cigarette Company (PCC), formerly Savannah Tobacco Company, on Friday relaunched its Pegasus and Branson brands under a US$9,5 million investment programme to enhance dominance on the local and international markets. PCC, the fastest growing cigarette manufacturer in the country, said the re-launch of the two leading brands, which were introduced in 2008, was meant to reposition the company’s brands and grow market share. According to PCC, the Pegasus and Branson are brands of high export quality that are expected to widen product offerings to local customers, being alternatives to already existing Pacific Cigarette brands in Zimbabwe. The repositioning of the brands will see the unveiling of Branson flame, toasted, and the mint into the market while Pegasus will be introduced in the market with the toasted flavour as well as the Chinese blend. Speaking at the launch event, general manager Mr Itayi Watinaye indicated that reintroduction of the Pegasus “Hong Ma” brand, was meant to cater for  the Chinese market in the region and beyond, thus growing the company’s brand visibility in the process. “Pegasus and Branson have always been part of our brand portfolio, catering to selected markets and offering world-class quality and flavour at affordable prices. By expanding our offering we will be providing more choice to these discerning customers, and doing so at unbeatable prices “We have a decent share in the toasted market, from Pacific Storm and other value for money brands, but Hong Ma, has proved to be a cigarette of choice for the Chinese because of its distinct Chinese flavour,” said Mr Watinaye. He said the re-launch was meant to reconnect and capture customers so that they have a wide cigarette portfolio and quality to pick their cigarettes from. He added that his company would soon launch the menthol flavour on the Branson line later this year in April. Pacific Cigarette Company which manufactures various brands like Pacific Storm and Pacific Breeze as well as Remington Gold was originally formed in 2002 as Savanna Cigarettes. In 2018 the company partnered with China Tobacco Shaanxi Industrial Corporation (CTSIC) a subsidiary of Chinese National Tobacco Company with intentions to improve their penetration into the global market. The company has since dominated the local cigarette industry, also breaking into the regional market with operations in South Africa, Zambia, and a distribution footprint across the region.