The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter THE Premier Netball League is next month set to recognise outstanding individuals and teams when they hold their 2021 awards in Harare. The awards ceremony has been pencilled in for February 12. The PNL are looking at rewarding the outstanding individuals and teams for the previous season. These include the best player of the season, top goal shooter, league winners, first and second runners up and the most disciplined team. Liberty Mhizha, the PNL secretary-general, said they have a sponsor who came on board for the awards but could not reveal the name of the sponsor and the total sponsorship package. “All participating teams will get prize monies. “I am not at liberty to disclose the name of the sponsor who has opted to remain anonymous,” said Mhizha. The awards were initially expected to take place in December but were postponed to this year. The league is also expected to elect a substantive executive this year when they hold their elective annual meeting on a date to be announced. The PNL was launched last year in September and had a crash programme with games played in four bubbles. The outgoing executive came in on an interim basis last year to run the league programme and with their term of office over, the league is expected to vote in a substantive executive to be in charge of its affairs for the next four years. Mhizha confirmed they are going to hold an elective AGM but said they are still to finalise on the date. “It’s an elective annual meeting for the executive, with a four-year term. It will basically be virtual for most teams with four top teams attending. “It was an interim executive given six months’ term to organise activities of PNL at its inception. “Governors will nominate members for election,” said Mhizha. The interim executive is led by chairperson Thabiso Mokoena, vice chairperson Loveday Magaya, secretary general Mhiza, vice-secretary general Sarudzai Chapo, treasurer Kuzivakwashe Mutuza, fixtures secretary Tinashe Jonasi, organising secretary Rodwell Turusa and committee members – Ruth Banda, Shorai Gopito, and Menfree Tanyanyiwa. The formation of the PNL, a professional league, meant the Zimbabwe Netball League will no longer be running the Super League. The meeting is likely to take place in the first quarter of the season since it is also expected to come up with the dates for the 2022 league season. “The annual meeting will decide when the league will begin,” said Mhizha. After a crash season last year, the league is set to have a proper programme this year. Speaking after their last games, that were held in Beitbridge where Platinum Queens were crowned champions, Mhizha said they were looking forward to a better 2022. “Every new journey is not easy but I am glad we pulled through successfully. There was a lot of positive competition amongst athletes despite the prolonged lay off and new talent has been nurtured in these clubs such that the future is bright,” said Mhizha. Some of the clubs, including the reigning champions Platinum Queens, have begun their pre-season preparations.