The Herald Mariam Kwari Hello friends, I welcome you all back to another edition of “Your health, Your wealth” with your dearest friend and Herbalist Nyasha. In this looming time of Covid -19 remember that it is important to look after yourself by eating healthy and enjoying a refreshing cup of Gaviola Tea or Juice. Rosemary tea is made from the leaves of the rosemary plant known by the botanical name Rosmarinus officinalis. It is native to the Mediterranean region and is an evergreen shrub. The shrub belongs to the mint family, which also includes lavender, thyme, basil, and sage. The leaves are used to make rosemary essential oil, rosemary extract, and rosemary tea. Rosemary tea is a herbal tea, rich in vitamins, iron, and calcium. The herb is commonly used in culinary dishes and makes essential oils. It is a perennial plant, making it a popular garden plant. You can brew the tea using rosemary leaves straight from your garden.
In ancient times, rosemary tea was used to treat everything from hair loss to digestive system ailments. Today, research shows rosemary tea may be beneficial to health when combined with a healthy diet and lifestyle. Rosemary as you  may all know, can be used in numerous ways. Some people may use it to add a little bit of flavour in their food or as a spice but today we would like to focus on the health benefits Rosemary has as a tea. Benefits Antioxidants and anti-inflammatory compounds Rosemary is a rich source of antioxidants and anti-inflammatory compounds, which are thought to help boost the immune system and improve blood circulation. Laboratory studies have shown rosemary to be rich in antioxidants, which play an important role in neutralising harmful particles called free radicals. Enhancing memory and concentration
The aroma from rosemary can improve a person’s concentration, performance, speed, and accuracy and, to a lesser extent, their mood. Neurological protection Scientists have found that rosemary tea may also be good for your brain. Rosemary contains an ingredient called carnosic acid, which can fight off damage by free radicals in the brain. Rosemary tea might be useful for people who have experienced a stroke. It appears to be protective against brain damage and might improve recovery. Prevent brain aging Some studies have suggested that rosemary tea may significantly help prevent brain aging. Full story on: www.herald.co.zw The therapeutic ability of rosemary for prevention of Alzheimer’s shows promise. Alzheimer’s is a condition that causes severe dementia and degradation of neuronal cells in people suffering from it. Rosemary tea has diterpenes that inhibit neuronal cell death and exhibit anti-inflammatory, antioxidative, antidepressant, and anxiolytic properties. Hence, having rosemary tea can help decelerate the loss of memory and disability.
May regulate blood sugar and heart health Rosemary tea contains camphene, luteolin, and carnosol, which help to regulate blood sugar levels and promote heart health. Well Friends, I hope that you are all going out into your gardens to plant yourselves some rosemary if it isn’t there already. Make sure you make use of this beautiful plant and remember all the benefits that I have stated above. I hope you are all well and staying healthy. God bless you and your families. Until next time. ◆ Miriam Nyasha Kwari/0773378571/ herbalmiraclesolutions@gmail.com