The Herald Phillip Mbofana in WARSAW, Poland TODAY’S African Cup of Nations Group B encounter between the Warriors of Zimbabwe and the Flames of Malawi is a high-stakes match and given the way the Warriors performed against the Teranga Lions of Senegal, we should fancy our chances. The performance was encouraging though the result was disappointing as it added to the dreadful run of results by the Warriors in more than 10 games. Yes, it was a relatively good performance but nothing has been achieved with that performance hence they now need to avoid the usual story of playing well in first matches and then crumbling in subsequent games just like in the last AFCON. Coach Norman Mapeza needs a pat on the back for the way he set up his team against the Senegalese. In tournament football, it is always important to be cautious in the first match and hoping to pounce on some few chances which unfortunately, we couldn’t do. The Lions of Teranga looked shaky at times and with more confidence we could have punished them. The Zimbabwe defence looked solid against Senegal but against Malawi there is a need to play an expansive game using our full backs to add numbers into attack. This may mean a minor tweak, especially on the left side and if Onismor Bhasera still has the energy to move up and down, then we could cause headaches  for the Malawians. The midfield was the most organised department against the Senegalese according to my observations and what may be needed now is for the central defence to move quickly into midfield areas so as to support the attackers who need to move into more advanced positions. It is important that we keep the defensive shape like we did on Monday and if we carry on from there it will be difficult for the Flames to penetrate. Barring the injuries and illness reported in the camp, tricky Kundai Benyu and captain Knowledge Musona should carry on from where they left against Senegal. With more precision from the captain, especially on set-pieces that could prove the difference between us and Malawi. The arrival of Jordan Zemura adds a good option on the left side of our team though he may not necessarily have to start the match. Bruce Kangwa is a combative player who adds depth in defence as he has played as a defender before while he was still with Highlanders. His hard runs into attack are a menace for any defence and with Zemura bringing in flair to the team, we are spoiled for choice on the left side. In attack, I believe Tino Kadewere will lead the front line and am sure he has a score to settle with the fans and may want to announce his arrival at this grand stage. Both Kadewere and Prince Dube are the future of our attack and if Dube gets another chance today, he surely would want to atone for the less than expected appearance against Senegal. Both strikers are proven goal scorers at their clubs and for Kadewere, he may also need this opportunity to regain his goal-scoring form which he may import back to his club in France. The Warriors appear very balanced, from the reassuring Petros Mhari in goals and in defence led by the gangling Teenage Hadebe. I am not worried whatever formation the Warriors will employ because what is important is for the team to deliver, especially in this group where we have equal chances with our other opponents except Senegal, who are the group favourites. Mhari had a blinder of a game on Monday and another such performance will attract serious interests from foreign clubs. The match against Malawi may also be decided by individual brilliance hence it’s important that the players be given freedom to express themselves, especially going forward. Yes, we have a more balanced side but this is the stage when national heroes are born. We have the talent and if Mapeza can conjure up another good game-plan then it will be left to the players to deliver on the field of play. One thing to be commended is the administrative side of the team where it showed that the players and technical team were all focused on the task at hand. Hats off to ZIFA and the SRC for taking care of this often ignored important team ingredient. ** Phillip Mbofana is a former Zimbabwe national Under-20 footbal team coach who is now coaching in Poland.