The Herald Tendai Rupapa
Senior Reporter
LOCAL steel firm, Zimsteel, has donated seven tonnes of maize to First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa’s Angel of Hope Foundation for onward distribution to the needy. The company’s founder, Engineer Benjamin Kabikira said they decided to donate to the foundation after recognising the immense work being done by the First Lady countrywide to ease the plight of the vulnerable groups. He encouraged other corporates and individuals to follow suit to improve the livelihood of the less privileged. Eng Mubikira said; “As a company we have decided to donate to the foundation because of a number of reasons: We want to support the good work that Amai, the First Lady is doing in assisting the less privileged groups. “To lessen the burden upon our mother considering she is a busy person, donating will assist in making her focus on distributing the items than to look for the items and distribute. “Donating to the First Lady, will help the items reach all corners of Zimbabwe. “We understand the First Lady has got a great burden of taking care of the nation hence she also needs players to assist her for the benefit of vulnerable members of society. That is why we have brought the maize to complement her efforts,” he said. The donation will boost already running programmes being undertaken by Amai Mnangagwa to cushion the targeted groups as she focuses on not leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that disadvantaged groups have access to food and improved healthcare facilities. The mother of the nation, who is also the country’s health Ambassador, has a passion for the welfare of the poor, the elderly, women and children, among many other disadvantaged groups. Amai Mnangagwa has helped mobilise resources and food for disadvantaged groups and personally distribute the goods to ensure they reach the intended beneficiaries. The demand for the presence of Angel of Hope Foundation is increasing countrywide as it responds to communities by addressing economic and social vulnerabilities to enable them to cope with economic demands of life. The First Lady whose humanitarian support programmes have benefited citizens, thanked Zimsteel and other organisations that have partnered her foundation in its quest to save lives. “Your support is greatly appreciated, we value your thoughtful gesture and may you be blessed for showing love to your brothers and sisters of Zimbabwe. The donation will surely go a long way,” she said.