The Herald Tadious Manyepo  in BAFFOUSAM, Cameroon
FORMER Warriors coach Callisto  Pasuwa has distanced himself from the Malawi national team who are taking part in the on-going African Cup of Nations in Cameroon. The Nyasa Big Bullets gaffer had been rumoured to have accepted a consultancy role for the Flames who are making their third appearance at the biannual fiesta. Pasuwa is indeed in Cameroon and was at the stadium on Monday when the Warriors lost their opening tie 0-1 to Senegal. The history-making coach, who won the league title with Dynamos in four consecutive seasons from 2011 to 2014, cut a dejected figure and shook his head in disbelief when Senegal were awarded a last-minute penalty. He had been following proceedings, clapping on every good move by the Warriors as he joined a small band of Zimbabwe fans who were seated just below the media tribune. And he laughed off the role he is being linked with in the Flames technical department. Malawi played against Guinea immediately after the Warriors’ match against Senegal and again the former Zimbabwe international watched from the terraces as Malawi lost 0-1 to the west Africans. However, the much-revered gaffer denied having any flirtation with the Flames. “This should be a joke I think. I saw social media was awash with these lies, blatant lies if I can say. I have no role in the Malawi national team whatsoever,” he said. “The rumour actually started when I called someone on Thursday as I was home (in Zimbabwe) telling them I would fly to Cameroon for the African Cup of Nations. “Maybe that’s how they started interpreting my going to Cameroon as a sign that I would be working with the Flames, but no, that’s not the issue.” Pasuwa was said to have been “appointed”, especially to plot the downfall of Zimbabwe who are in the same group with Malawi. The two southern African teams clash in the second group game on Friday at the Bafoussam Omnisport Stadium as both seek to revive their campaigns after faltering starts. Pasuwa has a knowledge of some of the players in the Warriors team, having worked with captain Knowledge Musona, Kuda Mahachi and Teenage Hadebe in the 2017 AFCON finals on Gabon. However, he is in Cameroon after his team, Nyasa Big Bullets, offered to take him and have a feel of the biggest football showcase in the continent. He has seven of his Nyasa Big Bullets players in the Flames team and the team management felt he deserved to be part of the spectators after having a good season back home. Pasuwa is accompanied in Cameroon by Bullets vice-chairman Fleetwood Haiya. In fact, The Herald caught up with Haiya in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, when he was on his way to Cameroon. “I can confirm we are going to the African Cup of Nations together with Pasuwa. He has no role he is playing there but as a football person, we just felt as Nyasa Big Bullets football club that he has to be part of the fun,” said Haiya. “We have many of our players in the team and when they see us, you know they will be motivated to play well. I called Pasuwa offering him to go to the African Cup of Nations as he has been in Zimbabwe for the holidays. “He is going via Kenya and we will be meeting at the Douala International Airport.” Pasuwa has won three league titles in succession with Bullets and has recently been receiving offers from big name teams within the region but he insists he is happy in Malawi.