The Herald Tadious Manyepo
Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWEAN striker Neil Nzvenga has expressed his desire to make a quick return to China after he was signed by Nigerian football side Enugu Rangers on a one-year contract. Nzvenga has since put pen to paper after parting ways with lowly Chinese side Guangxi Junling, having helped them win promotion from the provincial league to Fourth Division. However, Nzvenga had to find an alternative base as Chinese rules restrict the third and fourth divisions to only Chinese players. The 25-year-old is already in Nigeria preparing to make his Nigeria top-flight debut with one of the most iconic clubs in the west African country. This is the second coming of Nzvenga to the only team which has never been relegated in the Nigerian top-tier since its formation in 1970, having grown in the team’s reserves. He sparkled in the Rangers youth team in the 2013/2014 season, scoring 35 goals in 52 games prompting the team to offer him a professional contract a few days after his 18th birthday. But Nzvenga would move to China before the 2014/15 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) started. He was signed by Guangxi New England FC ahead of the 2015/16 Chinese Liuzhou season. “I am very much excited to be joining Rangers once again,” Nzvenga said. “I’m just looking forward to playing regularly, scoring goals and helping the team achieve their objectives which they have set for themselves. This is the team which groomed me to be the player I am today and it always feels good to be here once again. “I love to be here, to be with some of the players I grew up in the youth team with. The players who understand how I play and the plays I go along with so much. I am ready to play the best football. “I had to join Rangers after helping my Chinese team to the fourth division but then I had to walk out since only Chinese players are allowed in that division. I am hopeful that I will be back in China playing for top-league teams as I am also completing my studies in that country. “But, for now my focus is on helping Rangers achieve their objectives. I have gained a lot of experience in China and I hope to use that to help my new team.” Nzvenga is highly-rated in Nigeria especially after his heroics with the Rangers reserve team and Nigeria media often compares his play to Warriors captain Knowledge Musona’s.