The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE international defender Ronald Pfumbidzai has set his sights on helping new South African Premiership football club Chippa United fight for the Nedbank Cup. The talented left-back was unveiled by the Eastern Cape team on Thursday along with his former Royal AM teammate Siphelele Luthuli. The 27-year-old, together with Luthuli, were key members of Bloemfontein Celtic before the club’s franchise was acquired by a South African businesswoman Shauwn Mkhize, resulting in the change of name to Royal AM. But that shift would open a forgettable chapter for the former CAPS United man who was pushed into the peripheries of the team. Pfumbidzai has, however, managed to secure a two-year stay at the Kurt Lentjies-coached side and he wants to hit the ground running. With Chippa United currently 12th on the log standings, the Zimbabwean said he wants to help the team finish strongly on the log while fighting to win the Nedbank Cup which doesn’t only guarantee rich pickings but comes with a ticket of participation in the CAF Confederation Cup. Chippa United play University of Pretoria in the round of 32 Nedbank clash on February 4, a game which could mark his debut for the ambitious team. “I am very happy, I can’t wait to be in the field of play again, and I would like to thank God for this opportunity he gave me. I also want to thank my family for all the support. “There is nothing new in football but I want to do the best I can to help the team finish the league on a good position and help them to fight for the Nedbank Cup,” said Pfumbidzai. “I think it’s a good team and everyone knows what the team can do so I just have to work extra hard and see how it goes, I can only do my best and God is the master planner.” Having made his local Premiership debut with CAPS United in 2013 after joining from first division side Hippo Valley, Pfumbidzai had a loan stint at Danish side IK Hobro before he returned home and helped CAPS United win their fifth league title in 2016. He played some key roles for Lloyd Chitembwe’s charges as Makepekepe reached the CAF Champions’ group stages for the first time in their history before he was snatched by Bloemfontein Celtic in 2017. He was part of the Warriors’ squad at the 2017 and 2019 African Cup of Nations but was overlooked by Norman Mapeza for this year’s showdown as he lacked game time at Royal AM.