The Herald THE often cheerful Warriors midfielder Kelvin Madzongwe spent the last 48 hours pinching himself. He was feeling guilty after he unfortunately handled a goal-bound effort by a Senegal player to concede a last-minute penalty that resulted in Zimbabwe losing 0-1 in their opening African Cup of Nations game against Senegal on Monday. For someone who had played his heart out, winning plaudits in a day he neutralised Liverpool ace Sadio Mane, it felt so painful for the FC Platinum midfielder. He has since issued a passionate apology to the nation and given he was attempting to block that effort, a job he had done so well for the entire afternoon, the handball was unfortunate and he deserves pardon. The Warriors technical department spent most of the day on Tuesday psyching up the players to quickly forget about the pain and focus on the second game against Malawi tomorrow. This is a game they need to put the same work ethic or even more given what’s at stake. And Madzongwe, who despite playing in only his maiden AFCON, has gained some experience playing in the CAF Champions League, and he said he has recovered mentally and is now ready to put his body on the line for the country again in tomorrow’s tie against Malawi. “Defeat is not something which is easy to accept regardless of the type of opposition you would have faced. It’s painful always and given we had done well against Senegal, the loss meant something bigger,” said Madzongwe. “The handball was unfortunate; you know I was trying to throw my body down to block the effort but well… “However, my teammates, technical team and Zimbabweans have been so supportive. I feel so humbled by the backing I have been receiving through and through. “I salute the oneness. It’s so incredible.” Madzongwe said he is now geared up to face Malawi in a game he described as a must-win. “The general sentiment is that and we feel we have a very big chance of making it to the knock-out stages of this tournament. “It is something achievable and the destiny, despite our defeat to Senegal, is in our hands. “The match against Malawi is key and we should win it at all costs. “We lost to Senegal in unfortunate circumstances and that’s already water under the bridge. In tournament football, you should quickly switch on and brace for the next assignment. “In this case the next task is Malawi. The mission is certainly possible and we need to summon our energy levels to help us out. It’s like a final. A match that has a big bearing on where we would be, come the end of the group phases.” Madzongwe has largely been the unsung hero in the Warriors colours since coach Norman Mapeza started using him in a 2022 World Cup qualifier against Ghana at the Cape Coast in October last year. He has either been deployed as a centreback or as a defensive midfielder. In the match against Senegal on Monday, Madzongwe twinned with newboy Kundai Benyu and his industry allowed the latter more freedom to venture forward. At times, Madzongwe would make those attacking forays and each time he did that, Zimbabwe looked more threatening in the final third. “It all depends with how the coach wants us to play. Sticking to instructions is the best way to get the result you want. “We will put our heads on the block and try to see to it that we make the knock-out stages. As a group, we are motivated and we want to make the country proud. We are not playing for ourselves or our families, we are here to defend the country’s badge.”