The Herald NEW YORK. — Considering how long Whoopi Goldberg has been in the limelight, we really don’t know much about her personal life. Sure, most people realise she has been married three times. But how does the Sister Act star feel about her past relationships? Does she brush it off, like one of her famous characters — or is she hiding a deep well of pain? Well, in a series of candid interviews, Goldberg finally opened up about the surprising reasons why her private life has been a bust. Famously private This is so stunning because the actress is famously protective of her privacy. She even moved to a quiet neighbourhood in New Jersey to avoid public attention. In the past, she has also refused to share details of her love life, preferring instead a life of privacy. So what changed? Opening up about her marriages It’s clear something has altered her outlook. After all, the star has recently opened up about her three marriages in two extremely revealing interviews. Just in case you do not know, by the way, her marriages were to Alvin Martin, David Claessen and Lyle Trachtenberg. But what did Goldberg have to say about the failed relationships? Starting with a joke Of course, Goldberg started with a bit of a joke. ‘‘The first (marriage) lasted six years,” rattled Piers Morgan during their interview. “The second one lasted two years. And the last one lasted a year.” And Goldberg quipped, “I suppose that, you know, you have to actually be in love with the person that you marry.” And even though she got the laugh, the actor would soon reveal her true feelings. Welcoming her daughter You see, Goldberg married her first husband, Alvin Martin, in 1973. During that time, the comedian gave birth to her only child, daughter Alexandrea “Alex” Martin. But Goldberg couldn’t stay the course, and the couple split in 1979. And that’s right around the time that her career began to take off. Was that a coincidence? Career take-off Whatever the case, Steven Spielberg cast her in The Color Purple, alongside Oprah. The coming-of-age drama was a huge success, too, and it earned Goldberg an Oscar nomination. Film critic Robert Ebert describing her portrayal as “one of the most amazing debut performances in movie history.” Now that’s a good review! But things weren’t so good away from the cameras. Falling for the DP Goldberg was cast in a whopping seven movies between 1985 and 1988. And it was during the making of 1986 romantic comedy-drama Jumpin’ Jack Flash that she met her second husband. David Claessen, director of photography on the film, fell for its star — and the couple married later that year. But their union was to be short-lived and sadly, they parted ways only two years later. Fling with Dalton As with her first, the actress kept largely silent about her second failed marriage. She remained tight-lipped about her year-long dalliance with former Bond star, Timothy Dalton, too. The high-profile couple dated for about a year and Dalton even accompanied Goldberg to the 1991 Oscars. She took home the Best Supporting Actress award that night for her memorable turn as loony psychic Oda Mae Brown in Ghost (1990). But poor Dalton didn’t get a mention in the acceptance speech. Awkward! Sister Act success The following year saw Goldberg catapulted to superstardom with her role as a Reno lounge singer-turned nun in Sister Act. The musical romp was a box-office smash, prompting a 1993 sequel and a stage adaptation, which the actress produced and later starred in. In the same year that Sister Act 2 was released, Goldberg also appeared alongside Ted Danson in the comedy Made in America (1993). Controversial affair Now, according to Hello! magazine, the co-stars had already formed a friendship after meeting on late-night talk show, The Arsenio Hall Show back in the ’80s. But during production on Made in America, love reportedly blossomed between the pair. And so began a controversial affair because you see, while Goldberg was single at the time, Danson was not. Yes, the love rat was married with two children. Crumbling apart While the secret couple attempted to keep their affair under wraps, word soon got out to the press and Danson’s wife, Cassandra Coates, kicked him to the curb. More specifically, she divorced him for a hefty $30 million. Yikes, now that’s an expensive break-up. What probably hurt even more was that the actor’s relationship with Goldberg only lasted 18 months after that. Media reports suggested that pressure from the Mr Mayor star’s parents was the reason behind the split. All pretty sad, really. No longer friends What’s even sadder is that it appears that Goldberg had deep feelings for her former love. Discussing their break-up, she confessed to Closer magazine, “It was really painful, and it was very public. And the loss of his friendship hurts a great deal. We can never go and have a soda, anywhere.” The Ghost star lamented, “I’m friends with almost every man I’ve gone out with, except this man.” Rebound husband It’s hard to judge from the outside of course, but the actress was arguably on the rebound from Danson when she married her third husband just a year later. Goldberg wed actor Lyle Trachtenberg in October 1994 but the pair were divorced by the following year. Danson, meanwhile, married fellow movie star Mary Steenburgen after they fell in love while making Pontiac Moon the same year. More than 20 years later, the couple are still going strong. Bouncing back But Goldberg bounced back and her career continued to thrive throughout the ’90s. She starred opposite Ray Liotta in the heartwarming 1994 romantic drama Corinna, Corinna and memorably voiced alpha hyena Shenzi in Disney’s The Lion King, which was released the same year. The actress was busier than ever in 1996 with a four-film run that included fantasy flick Bogus, also starring Gérard Depardieu, and Haley Joel Osment. Finding love again The comedy star played a basketball fanatic who winds up coaching the New York Knicks in her next movie, Eddie. The picture was a critical and commercial flop, but Goldberg found romance with her co-star, Frank Langella, during the production. Things got pretty serious too, as the couple lived together for five years until the relationship sadly came to an end in 2001. Keeping things private So what exactly happened between the two stars? Well, we’ll never know for sure. True to form, Goldberg has kept mum about the break-up. And Langella, despite being a notorious former lothario — reportedly, he’s bedded a slew of famous women including Jackie Onassis and Rita Hayworth — has also kept silent. The Frost/Nixon actor only discusses former conquests who are no longer with us, he told UK newspaper The Guardian in 2013. Between Broadway and Hollywood Meanwhile, the Sister Act star returned to Broadway in 1996, taking on Nathan Lane’s former role of Pseudolus in the Sondheim musical comedy, A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum. Goldberg appeared opposite Angela Bassett in the romantic drama How Stella Got Her Groove Back in 1998. Then the following year she moved away from her traditional comedy form with the tense psychological drama, Girl, Interrupted, in which she played a psychiatric nurse. Busiest star of the decade Goldberg appeared in a whopping 29 movies in the 1990s; cumulatively the films grossed $1,3 billion in the USA and Canada alone. That achievement made her the hardest-working film star of the decade, with AC Nielsen EDI noting her as the actress appearing in the most theatrical films in the 1990s. Not a bad boast! But as the new millennium arrived, the star’s movie-making career began to wane. Moving to TV The advent of the Noughties saw Goldberg move away from films into mostly television and stage-acting work. She hosted her own show, Whoopi, in 2003 but its dismal ratings saw it axed after only one season. And the TV personality showed her political leanings with the medical drama Strong Medicine, a show she co-created and in which she made occasional cameos. The show host also starred in the Nickelodeon kids’ mini-series, Whoopi’s Littleburg. Declaring retirement The actress debuted her own morning radio talk show Wake Up with Whoopi in 2006. Then a year later, she declared her retirement from film acting, citing the lack of movie scripts being sent her way as the reason. In a 2007 interview with talk show legend Larry King, the star lamented, “You know, there’s no room for the very talented Whoopi. There’s no room right now in the marketplace of cinema.” Committed to her family But the people Goldberg is completely committed to are her daughter, Alex, and her three grandchildren. As she told Morgan, “I’m committed to my family, you know, and so – hence, for that relationship has lasted, you know, the longest.” This just goes to show that much as Whoopi marches to the beat of her own drum, she certainly has her priorities straight and knows what’s truly important.  — social.entrepreneur.com