The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe senior men’s cricket team received a huge boost ahead of the One Day International series decider against Sri Lanka as coach Lalchand Rajput is back in the fold after spending the better part of the tour in Covid-19 isolation. The coach was unavailable for the opening two matches of the series after he had tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival in Colombo from his native India. But he was back with the team in training on Wednesday, a day after the Chevrons had levelled the series, 1-1, with an impressive 22-run victory against a Sri Lankan side that was also hit by the virus in the run up to the series. Sri Lanka were forced to drop at least three players that tested positive for the virus from their squad for the series. But Rajput returned in time for the finale after the Chevrons had bounced back from the opening match defeat and set up a potentially explosive decider. The series is part of the ICC Cricket World Cup Super League and it carries important points towards qualification to next year’s ICC World Cup. The hosts won the opening match by five wickets despite Zimbabwe having put up a commendable show with the bat. In fact, the Zimbabweans have experienced mixed fortunes during this tour. They would want to build on the positives from the opening two matches, in which they batted sensibly on a batting-friendly wicket. Zimbabwe have done well with their openers Regis Chakabva and Takudzwanashe Kaitano. The pair is expected to be given the platform again to open the innings for this crucial encounter. Stand-in captain Craig Ervine will be hoping to win the toss for the third time in a row so that they bat first, like they have done with the first two games, with some great deal of satisfaction. The visitors will again be hoping that senior players like Sean Williams, who blasted a century in the first match, Sikandar Raza and Ryan Burl continue to lead from the front. Zimbabwe so far haven’t seen much from Wesley Madhevere in the middle. The young all-rounder has had a difficult series. If he is not sacrificed for this game, then he would need to roll up his sleeves to justify his presence in the team. Bowlers led by Blessing Muzarabani recovered well from the disappointments they faced in the face match, with some commendable bowling in the second game. Seamers Muzarabani, Tendai Chatara and Richard Ngarava could again turn out to be the vital weapons for Zimbabwe today. A victory for Zimbabwe would hand them their first series win of this inaugural 13-team Super League cycle. The Chevrons moved from the bottom of the table into 10th place following Tuesday’s win. Another victory today would lift them two places up, although they would have played more games than the teams below them. Teams get 10 points for a win and five for a tie, no result or abandoned match. So far Rajput’s men have won three games from 11 outings and have 35 points after one of the games was abandoned. Zimbabwe are also motivated by the fact that a series win in Sri Lanka would be a second successive, following the success of their last tour in 2017 when they bagged the series 3-2. The return of the coach should be a huge boost for the team. Rajput was also excited by his recovery. “It’s good to be back again with the boys. I think you know when I tested positive I was really upset because I could not be with the team for the first games. “The series in Sri Lanka is very important because these are our Super League games. We would want to do well,” said Rajput. The 60-year-old Indian national was asymptomatic when the tests were conducted on arrival and he spent the last week in isolation in accordance with the health protocols. Rajput’s backroom staff that includes batting coach Stewart Matsikenyeri, bowling coach Douglas Hondo and fielding coach Shepherd Makunura has been working with the team in his absence.