The Herald London. — Liverpool moved up to second in the Premier League as they overcame a stubborn Brentford side 3-0 to take all three points at Anfield. Fabinho’s far-post header eased some of the tension that had built up at Anfield over 43 goalless minutes, but the home fans were relieved when Bryan Mbeumo sliced wide from a fine position after the break. Shortly afterwards, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain connected with an Andy Robertson cross to double the lead and Takumi Minamino came off the bench to side-foot home a third. Leaders Manchester City are 11 points above Liverpool, having played a game more. It will take a spectacular and sudden disintegration in the champions’ form, and a near flawless run-in from Liverpool to reverse those standings by May. City have dropped just 10 points so far this season. Liverpool find a way without star duo It was the first time since May 2017 that Liverpool had lined up without either Mohamed Salah or Sadio Mane for a Premier League match. And, for a while, it showed. Liverpool had huffed and puffed to little effect against 10-man Arsenal in the Carabao Cup in midweek and once again they initially dominated possession without making an impression on the scoreline. With Salah and Mane away on international duty, the hosts lacked the necessary guile and dexterity to prise apart the packed ranks of defenders. Meanwhile, Jack Harrison scored his first career hat-trick as Leeds United avenged last week’s FA Cup defeat with a thrilling Premier League 3-2 victory over West Ham at London Stadium. The visitors, who lost 2-0 seven days ago, were pegged back twice before Harrison scored the pick of his three goals with a neat chip over Lukasz Fabianski as Leeds made it consecutive league wins for the first time this season. “This was a typical Premier League game,” said Leeds boss Marcelo Bielsa. “It was good that it went in our favour but the margin was very close. “It is a triumph for the players because of the effort they put in. “The desire to win was very, very big.” Harrison opened the scoring with a fierce strike in the 10th minute but West Ham recovered from their lacklustre start to equalise through the in-form Jarrod Bowen. Leeds took the lead again before the interval as Harrison sneaked in at the back post to convert off his thigh from Luke Ayling’s downward header following a corner. Pablo Fornals scored his first goal since November to draw the Hammers level for a second time in the 52nd minute, but Harrison sealed victory eight minutes later. Bowen, who had earlier scored his fourth goal in three games, missed a golden chance in the final seconds to draw the hosts level as he could only chest the ball over the bar from a few yards when unmarked. That came after both sides had goals ruled out as first, Mateusz Klich’s effort was crossed off as it brushed an offside Rodrigo on its way in, before Andriy Yarmolenko’s header was deemed offside too. Bielsa’s side move up one place into 15th, nine points clear of the relegation zone, although 18th-placed Norwich City have also played a game more. West Ham remain fourth but the group of clubs in the chasing pack all have games in hand. Fifth-placed Arsenal are two points behind having played two games fewer. — BBcsport.