The Herald LUTON. — Luton Town attacker Admiral Muskwe believes there is plenty more to come from him in a Luton shirt and he’s determined to show just that when he returns to Kenilworth Road from his time at the African Cup of Nations. The 23-year-old moved to the Hatters from English Premier League side Leicester City in the summer and although he has made 13 English Championship appearances for his new side, only four of them having been starts, with his one goal coming against Stevenage in the Carabao Cup. Muskwe will now be missing for the next few weeks as he is part of the Zimbabwe squad who are in Cameroon for the international tournament, but he wants to make sure Town fans see the best of him when he is back in Bedfordshire again. He said: “I think there’s definitely a lot more to come. “I haven’t shown totally what I’m capable of and I’ll continue to improve and become a better player and show what I can do, there is more to come and I’m going to show that for sure. “I’m very happy to have made the move. “When I first moved in the summer I reiterated it was the perfect fit for myself and the club and maybe I haven’t got off to the start I would have wanted, picked up a little niggle, few injuries here and there, but everyone’s been great. “The staff are great, everyone around the place is great, the boys are great, the fans are great, so I don’t have a bad word to say about Luton. “It’s a great place to be and hopefully I can repay the fans and the faith the club have shown in me once I’m back from the African Cup of Nations.” Muskwe, who spent last term on loan with Wycombe Wanderers in the second tier, feels he is improving constantly at Luton this term, as he continued: “Every game, every day, every training session, it’s all about adding a little bit more to your game, developing as a player, tactically, technically, physically. “I feel like I’ve come a long way in that sense. Maybe I haven’t quite shown it on the pitch just yet, but I’m looking to do that very soon. “I’m still only 23 which in football terms is young, very young in fact. “I’ve got a lot of learning to do, but I’m always wanting to learn and I think I’ll just continue learning every day.” AFCON 2021 Zimbabwe schedule January 10: Senegal vs Zimbabwe (3pm Kouekong Stadium, Bafoussam) — Live on Sky Sports Premier League January 14: Malawi vs Zimbabwe ( 6pm Kouekong Stadium, Bafoussam) — Live on Sky Sports Premier League January 18: Zimbabwe vs Guinea (6pm Stade Ahmadou Ahidjo, Yaounde) — Live on Sky Sports Premier League — Luton Today.