The Herald TV and stage actor Sello Maake ka Ncube has hit the right note with his latest play, ‘‘The Voice’’, which tackles the issue of gender-based violence — a behaviour he admits to having perpetrated when he was younger. The show opened late last year at the Joburg Theatre for two days and it was sold out. It has been brought back for another run at the Soweto Theatre from January 27 to 30 due to popular demand. The play is co-written by Maake ka Ncube and Abafazi Bengema, a group of women who are part of his incubation programme. The story is told by 11 women who highlight the plight of women who have survived domestic violence and discrimination, and issues a call for men to be at the centre of eradicating GBV. Speaking to Sowetan on Monday, Maake ka Ncube, who has began rehearsing the show, is looking forward to the Soweto Theatre performances. He said ‘‘The Voice’’ is an inspiring call to society to reflect, introspect and to repair the social and moral fibre. In telling the story, Maake ka Ncube employs a multi-disciplinary approach of powerful story-telling in song, spirited dance and audio-visuals, spicing it up with songs of redemption and consciousness. “Gender-based violence has been a serious problem in our country and it has been for the longest time, and candid enough to admit that I am personally a repentant perpetrator of violence. This happened when I was young, before maturity and took a decision in 1984 that I will change. “I am taking a very interesting narrative about GBV, chronicling the journey of black people as far back as colonialism through ‘The Voice’. Our dysfunctional (state) as black people was hastened by colonialism. “My journey of dealing with gender-based violence began in 1998 with a show called ‘Toxic Masculinity’ and had many dialogues with men about the subject. But I think ‘The Voice’ is a leading key to a whole interrogating that women have to take. “Men need to be spoken to and ‘The Voice’ represents that female voice that says guys, people, recognise us as human beings. There is a problem with the way we are dealing with gender-based violence. ” The seasoned actor added that since the play was dealing with a crucial issue, it can be performed inside and outside theatre spaces. After the Soweto Theatre, the show will be staged at the University of Johannesburg in March. — Sowetan