The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE cricket team captain Craig Ervine says the Chevrons are excited to be back on the pitch tomorrow when they face hosts Sri Lanka in the first One Day International at the Pallekele International Cricket Stadium. The Chevrons, who were last in action four months ago during the tour of United Kingdom, will resume their quest in the ICC Cricket World Cup Super League. Ervine yesterday told Saturday Herald from Sri Lanka that they are ready for the three-match series. The series is critical for Zimbabwe who anchor the 13-team Super League and are in desperate need for points to shore up their World Cup chances. “It’s always good to be back at it and training for an upcoming series and the banter that comes with being on tour and being in different conditions,” said Ervine. “Everyone is excited for three games coming up and I’m hoping that we not only put in a good show but win. It’s very important to win as many games as possible.  We want to automatically qualify for the World Cup and that should be sole goal with all Super League games. “Sri Lanka have a few key players missing out on the tour so it’s an opportunity for us to capitalise on. Having said that they still have some quality players in the named squad so we have to play our best cricket throughout.” Ervine has been entrusted with the responsibility to lead Zimbabwe once again after he captained the team for the limited-overs tour to Ireland and Scotland in August-September last year. The veteran batter is surrounded by experienced players such as Sikandar Raza, Regis Chakabva, Tendai Chatara and Sean Williams. Zimbabwe’s 15-man squad also includes the uncapped duo of opening batter Takudzwanashe Kaitano and wicketkeeper Clive Madande and Blessing Muzarabani while all-rounder Tino Mutombodzi made a return to the national side. But coach Lalchand Rajput will miss the clash tomorrow after testing positive for Covid-19 on arrival in Sri Lanka from his native India. The 60-year-old coach spent the week in isolation. Batting coach Stewart Matsikenyeri and bowling coach Douglas Hondo are expected to lead the team tomorrow. The whole team only got out of quarantine on Thursday and have had three days to fine tune themselves ahead of the series. “It’s been a very different experience to be honest since arriving in Sri Lanka from the previous visit we had and that’s all down to Covid-19 regulations and the limited movement you have around the hotel. It’s still a beautiful country and it’s a shame we won’t get a chance to explore,” said Ervine. “It always makes an impact on a team when you are missing your head coach. Although he hasn’t been with us he has been a big part of our lead up to the series communicating between myself and technical staff,” said Ervine. Their hosts Sri Lanka were forced to drop three players that tested positive for Covid-19. Top order batter Avishka Fernando and the uncapped duo of Kamil Mishara and Janith Liyanage were omitted from the strong 17-member squad because of the Covid-19 positive tests. Five new players were roped into the squad as replacements. Sri Lanka will be led by captain Dasun Shanaka. Zimbabwe Squad: Ervine Craig (captain), Burl Ryan, Chakabva Regis, Chatara Tendai, Jongwe Luke, Kaitano Takudzwanashe, Madande Clive, Madhevere Wessely, Masakadza Wellington, Mutombodzi Tinotenda, Muzarabani Blessing, Ngarava Richard, Raza Sikandar, Shumba Milton, Williams Sean Sri Lanka Squad: Dasun Shanaka (Captain), Pathum Nissanka, Minod Bhanuka, Charith Asalanka, Chamika Karunaratne, Maheesh Theekshana, Jeffrey Vandersay, Nuwan Thushara, Ramesh Mendis, Praveen Jayawickrama, Dushmantha Chameera, Chamika Gunasekera