The Herald DOUALA. — Cote d’Ívoire will have a shot at revenge over Egypt when the teams meet in the penultimate Round of 16 match at the African Cup of Nations, set for the Japoma Stadium in Douala, Cameroon, today. Kick-off is at 6pm. These two teams have had two iconic Afcon meetings since the turn of the century: the 2006 final and 2008 semi-final, both of which had Egypt emerge as victors (on penalties after a 0-0 draw and 4-1 respectively). But with the Ivorian Elephants having been one of the most impressive teams on show in the Group Stage of this tournament (they topped Group E with an unbeaten record) and fresh from completely outclassing a North African heavyweight in Algeria last Thursday, they very much have momentum on their side, and setting the record straight after the above-mentioned defeats will be a major motivating factor. Coach Patrice Beaumelle insists his side still has vulnerabilities that need addressing — “the goal we conceded [against Algeria] shows our fragility” — but feels “a soul in the team”. “I’m satisfied with that,” he added. “There is individual talent, but also collective talent.” They will look to Max Gradel, Franck Kessie and Nicolas Pepe to continue their fine form, while Sebastien Haller will also play a key role as the spearhead of the Elephants’ attack. Egypt, meanwhile, had a stuttering Group D campaign and finished second behind Nigeria. The North Africans opened with a defeat to the Super Eagles, but recovered and steadily improved across their subsequent wins over Guinea-Bissau and Sudan. One of the Pharaohs’ main problems has been a lack of creativity and efficiency in attack, with star man Mohamed Salah notably short of his best form. Nonetheless, coach Carlos Queiroz has promised an improved showing from their forwards. “Despite all the pressure they come back (from the defeat to Nigeria). They play strong, they play good football,” said the Portuguese tactician. “They just need to score more goals. To only play good football is not enough — we need to build up more goals and with that be more relaxed in the game. “We complicate our lives because in a game like this the profile of the game is ‘kick the ball forward, kick the ball forward’. We always have (the) intention to score and it only takes one small mistake, one rebound, and something can happen.” In head-to-head stats, Cote d’lvoire and Egypt have met in 21 matches across all competitions since their first clash back in 1970. The Pharaohs have claimed 11 wins compared to seven for the Elephants, while three games have been drawn. The teams last met in an international friendly in Abu Dhabi in January 2013 which ended in a 4-2 win for Cote d’Ivoire, thanks to goals from Gervinho (two), Lacina Traore and Didier Ya Konan. — AFP.