The Herald Elita Chikwati Senior Agriculture Reporter Mostly cloudy and warm conditions are expected in the northern half of the country; Midlands, Matabeleland North, all Mashonaland provinces, Harare Metropolitan and northern parts of Manicaland with scattered afternoon or evening thunderstorms, the Meteorological Services Department has said. The southern half of the country which includes, Matabeleland South, Bulawayo Metropolitan, Masvingo and southern parts of Manicaland should be partly cloudy and warm with isolated thunderstorms. Yesterday, it was cloudy over much of the country, with scattered thunderstorms. “Notable falls were at West Nicholson (50mm), Bulawayo Goetz (40mm), Rusape (36mm), Mukandi (28mm), Lupane (25mm), Masvingo (23mm) and Tsholotsho (21mm) yesterday. Meanwhile, moisture continues to drift in through the north-western parts of the country. “On Wednesday, scattered thunderstorms are expected in Matabeleland North, Bulawayo Metropolitan, northern parts of Midlands, Harare Metropolitan, all Mashonaland provinces and Manicaland, with localised heavy rains in places. “It should be mild at first becoming warm by afternoon with cloudy conditions for most of the day. All other areas (namely Matabeleland South, southern areas of Midlands and Masvingo) are anticipated to be partly cloudy and warm with isolated afternoon thundershowers, though mild both morning and evening,” said the met department. The met department said localised heavy downpours remain probable. “Strong winds may blow off roofs and damage property while lightning and hailstorms are a major risk during this period “Most thunderstorms occur between mid-morning and evening hours, with afternoons being peak periods,” said the department. The public has been urged to stay indoors during thunderstorms. “When thunder roars, go indoors. Stay indoors for at least 30 minutes after the thunderstorms have ended. These are precautionary measures to reduce the chances of being struck by lightning. “Do not ride at the back of an open vehicle or ox-drawn cart during a thunderstorm. Avoid contact with water or metal objects including farming equipment when lightning is visible, even from a distance. “Insure crops against adverse weather such as hailstorms and be weather-ready; always plan with the weather in mind,” said the department.