The Herald Danai Chitakasha Special Correspondent “IF we have to choose between the Sabbath and football, we will choose the Sabbath. Football laws are made by people; the Sabbath was written by the finger of God!”  This statement was made by Felix Matsika, the team manager of flamboyant and well-resourced team Amazulu Football Club. These words which he delivered with a conviction rooted on religious principles captured the battle between the Delma Lupepe-owned outfit and the local Premier Soccer League authorities. In the end the football club lost its battle to stay in the league. Who was to blame? Some will blame religious intransigence; others will blame the PSL inflexibility. This is a debate for another day. What cannot be denied is that the demise of Amazulu Football Club was a big loss to the players and fans. Indeed, when two elephants fight, it is the grass which suffers.  We still miss the once cash rich club.  That statement made by Matsika will go down in our football history as one of the most unforgettable ever made by an official. It marked the end of an era. Allow me to use it as a starting point of my discussion today as I focus on the unforgettable quotes in our football story. I will pick 10 (including Matsika’s) and hopefully others can add some more as we continue our effort to capture all aspects of our football story. With CAPS United leading 3-2 and time running out, Mugabe went on an overlapping run before sending in a tantalising cross. Stanley “Sinyo” Ndunduma, a former CAPS United son broke the hearts of the fans who used to idolise him by burying the ball home. 3-3 was the final score and the teams had to fight another day. Papa was so happy with “AK” he simply said: “Uri huchi kazi!” I have never forgotten that statement, a statement of appreciation and gratitude. Without a thick skin, one can easily succumb to pressure and that is exactly what happened to Bongani Mafu. He summed it well when he said: “Even Jesus cannot coach Highlanders!”  This gave insight into how he felt about the cherished but demanding Bosso coaching job. The South Africa team was packed with talent and Khumalo was regarded as the gold dust among the galaxy of stars. This attention was not lost on the affable “Mahwiii’’ and after marking Doctor out of the match to secure a 4-1 hammering of Bafana Bafana he quipped: “Doctor Khumalo is too beautiful to play football!”  It was a below the belt punch but that was a Mahwiii for you, a man who was never afraid to speak his mind. However, most of his ideas hit a brick wall and when he was blamed for the failure to qualify for the 1992 AFCON competition he resigned.  He gave a parting shot and said: “Even if you hire a coach from the moon, you (Zimbabwe) will never qualify!”  Many took it as a curse and subsequent failures to qualify were attributed to this statement. “Ben Koufie cursed us!” we declared. But did he really curse us?  I think the reason we have not become a football powerhouse in Africa can be traced to what Ben Koufie was trying hard to introduce but was resisted. We still face the same challenges to date. “Hapana chituko!” Soldiers will be soldiers and so before playing football, he had to go for military training. I will never forget Leo’s response to this expectation. After one grueling training session, he disappeared and Airforce of Zimbabwe people could not find him. Later he emerged and declared: “I am a footballer not a soldier.”  He forgot the old saying among our people: “Ateya mariwa murutsva haatyi kusviba magaro!”  Joining Chapungu came with a package, he had to go through the military training and earn his stripes.  “Ntawaz”, as we called him, was an interesting character, May His Soul Rest in Peace! With his hand on his chin he continued: “He has coached in most of the continents, including Zimbabwe. . . !” That did it, the video went viral and the poor president was dismissed as a clueless leader.  He made it worse when he said: “I might have difficulties in pronouncing his name, so I will not pronounce it!” I think it will be difficult to repair the damage and this statement might come to define his term of office. Indeed, the Zimbabwean football story is a fascinating one. There are many aspects to discuss and the enduring statements deserve a special place in the narrative. Dear reader feel free to add to the pick. — Sisonke.