The Herald YAOUNDE. — Morocco and Malawi will do battle in a 2021 African Cup of Nations Last 16 match at the Stade Omnisport Ahmadou Ahidjo in Yaounde, Cameroon, tonight. Kick-off is at 9pm. The Atlas Lions eased into the knock-out phase after recording two wins and one draw which saw the 1976 African champions finish at the top of Group C undefeated. With their star player Hakim Ziyech missing from this year’s tournament, Sofiane Boufal has stepped up his performances having scored twice in the group stage and he could be the man to inspire Morocco to the quarter-finals. Vahid Halilhodžic, the Morocco head coach, was pleased to see his charges show character against Gabon in their 2-2 draw on January 18 and he urged them to focus on Malawi after they were recently drawn against DR Congo in the 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifiers. “I’m proud of the players for fighting back and equalising twice. This shows maturity and character in difficult circumstances. I am happy with them,” Halilhodžic told the media. “A draw is only good when you win, but right now I am busy with the preparations for Malawi, after that, I will think more and talk about this play-off (against DR Congo). We have time to prepare for Malawi. My concern is to prepare for the next AFCON match. “We have the same chances as our opponent. But now, we are focused on this AFCON and on Malawi.” Meanwhile, Malawi are hoping to create more history in the AFCON finals having reached the knock-out phase for the first time as one of the four best third-placed teams after finishing third in Group B. The Flames will pin their hopes of causing a major upset against Morocco on Frank Mhango with the striker having scored their two goals in the group stage and Denis Chembezi who was rock-solid at the back against Senegal on January 18. Malawi vice-captain and midfielder John Banda has described their clash with Morocco as the biggest match of their lives and he made it known that they do not fear the North African giants. “All is well in camp. We travelled well from Bafoussam and have settled well in the new environment. To most of us Yaounde is not new,” Banda told the Football Association of Malawi’s official website. — AFP.