The Herald Columbus Mabika Herald Reporter President Mnangagwa yesterday promoted 17 Air Force of Zimbabwe Squadron Leaders to the rank of Wing Commander and 15 Flight Lieutenants to Squadron Leaders with effect from December 31 last year. The President made the promotions in terms of Section 15(1) (b) of the Defence Act, which reads “His Excellency the President of the Republic of Zimbabwe and Commander-in-Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces may, on the advice of the minister acting on the recommendation of the commander, promote or temporarily appoint an officer to a higher rank”. The latest promotions follow last week’s ceremony which saw two senior officers being elevated to the rank of Air Commodore and six rising to the Group Captain rank. Conferring the new insignia to the newly-promoted servicemen, AFZ Chief of Staff Operations Air Vice Marshal Biltim Chingono said it was an appreciation for the job the officers perform in defence of the country’s aspirations. “The State greatly appreciates the duties you perform bearing in mind the immense responsibility bestowed on you. These promotions are also a reminder to all of us here that it is the prize placed on hard work and sacrifice,” he said. “Let it be known that efforts of this nature are never in vain, but always recompensed by more, it is also an encouragement for you to continue to excel and strive for the next level I know that through the requisite staff development training you have been equipped with, essential knowledge and skills to positively contribute to the growth of the organisation and the country at large.” He called on the newly-promoted to continue with their exemplary culture of hard work. “As AFZ, we expect you to be justiceably accountable for your behaviour on and off work, impart to your subordinates’ qualities of integrity hard work diligence, make each decision with the organisation’s best interest in mind, believe in yourselves so that you may and reach your goals and fulfil your dreams, be the best that you can be so that you may fill your lives and the lives of those closest to you with happiness and pride,” he said. Air Vice Marshal Chingono reminded the newly-promoted that their promotion came with more responsibilities “Always know that no matter where you go or what you do, there are challenges ahead, I would like each of you to meet those challenges head on, with your head held high and your heart wide open, your individual successes will benefit society as a whole because when you succeed,” he said. He added that the economic situation in the country was poised for an upward trajectory that required patriotic and loyal people saying the new promotions were made with a focus on innovation and research in order to find solutions to native challenges. Among the promoted officers is Wing Commander Tawanda Zowa, who distinguished himself in air power at the Joint Command Staff Course Number 33 at Zimbabwe Staff College in 2020. Wing Commander Tarsianna Machekabuwe expressed gratitude for the promotion and vowed to continue working hard for the betterment of the AFZ and the nation at large “We sincerely express gratitude for this promotion. “We promise to continue working hard for the development and betterment of the AFZ and this great nation at large,” she said.