The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter PETERHOUSE student Brian Bennett is proving to be the run scoring machine for Zimbabwe at the ICC Under-19 Cricket World Cup currently underway in the West Indies. Bennett, who is the Zimbabwe Under-19 team’s vice-captain, has taken it upon himself to lead from the font. He is currently Zimbabwe’s top scorer at the tournament, with 174 runs from four innings. Unfortunately, the Prosper Utseya-coached side missed out on the Super League after finishing third in Group C, which was won by Pakistan, with Afghanistan as runners-up. The middle order batsman told The Saturday Herald from the team’s base in Trinidad that he is looking forward to more performances as they rekindle their rivalry with Ireland in the semi-finals of the Plate Championship today. Bennett was named  man-of-the-match for his feisty half century which helped Zimbabwe secure a comfortable victory over Scotland in the Plate quarter-finals. “The guys are very excited to come up against Ireland in the Plate semi-finals. It’s a huge privilege, although we would have liked to have gotten to the Super League. “I think to be here in the Plate semifinals is a huge privilege for all of us so we are trying to make Zimbabwe proud by working hard. “What I liked the most about being at this World Cup is the privilege to represent my country. I would like to enjoy the opportunity that I have been given. “Not many people get the opportunity to play for their country. It has been a wonderful experience and hopefully I will do well in the next two games and be able to play in the Plate finals,” said Bennett. Along with Matthew Welch they are among the top 10 top run-getters at the tournament at this stage. Apart from skipper Emmanuel Bawa, most of the Zimbabwean players arrived in the West Indies without prior youth international experience. “It’s been a huge privilege to come to the West Indies and play cricket here. It’s just amazing, it’s a different type of environment and different atmosphere. “It’s a good experience playing cricket in different places around the world. It gives confidence and boosts me to do well especially when playing on such good grounds.” The Zimbabwe Under-19 side are looking forward to compensate for the failure to make the Super League, a privilege which was reserved to the top two teams from each group. Zimbabwe had begun their campaign on a positive note after trouncing Papua New Guinea by 228 runs. However, back-to-back defeats to Pakistan and Afghanistan left them in the cold. Zimbabwe returned to their winning ways by outplaying Scotland by 108 runs in the quarter-finals of the less glamorous Plate Championship. “The victory over Scotland was a huge morale-booster for the team. It gave myself and my teammates a lot to work for ahead of the semifinal against Ireland. I think it motivates us to keep improving and keep trying to win so that we get to the Plate final. “I attribute my form to hard work in the nets and in the centre wicket practices during the rest days between the matches. I have been focusing more on my game when I am out in the middle and just taking my time, occupying the crease for as long as I can, and just hitting the bad balls and respecting the good balls; working those singles and trying to bat with my partner for as long as possible, and scoring over five-six runs an over. Bennett scored his highest score at the tournament against one of the best teams at the tournament – Pakistan. His 83 runs helped Zimbabwe get to a decent total against the fierce Pakistani bowling. His 83 runs came off 92 balls, with a six and 11 fours. He scored his second fifty of the tournament in the game against Scotland when he had a brilliant knock of 54 off 58 deliveries, with one six and five fours. His twin brother, David, is also part of the team in the West Indies.