The Herald LONDON. – English Premiership football club Aston Villa have had a loan offer for Barcelona outcast Philippe Coutinho accepted, according to reports. In what will be one of the most exciting moves of the entire window, the Brazil star has agreed to return to the English Premier League until the end of the season. “Aston Villa and FC Barcelona have agreed terms for Philippe Coutinho to spend the rest of this season on loan at Villa Park,” Villa said in a statement. “The agreement, which is subject to the player completing a medical and receiving a work permit, also includes an option to buy and Philippe will travel to Birmingham in the next 48 hours.” The deal sees Coutinho reunited with his former Liverpool team-mate Steve Gerrard. The Brazilian has struggled for game time since joining the Catalan giants for £145million in 2018. This term, Coutinho has just two goals in 16 games for Barca, who have been trying to shift him off the books for some time. And now according to talkSPORT, Coutinho will link-up with former Liverpool team-mate Gerrard at Villa. The 29-year-old will join on an initial loan deal. –The Sun Villa beat off a host of competition from both in the English Premier League and in Europe. Arsenal, Tottenham, Everton and Newcastle had been linked with the former Liverpool star. Soon-to-be boss Gerrard described Coutinho as a ‘’wonderful footballer’’. Speaking on the links with the Brazilian over a potential transfer, Gerrard said: “He’s a wonderful footballer, to share a dressing room and a pitch with Coutinho was an absolute pleasure because he is on a level that very few footballers are on. “His imagination, his creativity, some of the highlight reels are incredible and there for all to see. “I think the name speaks for itself.” Indeed, Villa boss Gerrard was the key factor in Coutinho’s decision to sign for Villa given his close relationship with the Anfield legend. Following talks with Gerrard, attacking midfielder Coutinho was left completely convinced that a move to Villa Park was the right move for him.  And there is a massive confidence at Villa that Coutinho will hit the ground running to become one of the stars of the second half of the season.  Sportsmail revealed Villa’s efforts to sign Coutinho on Wednesday afternoon and the deal has moved on rapidly since then. A number of clubs across the English Premier League and Europe were keen on Coutinho but the influence of Gerrard has been key in the 29-year-old choosing Villa. Villa are 13th in the Premier League table but have made a promising start to life under Gerrard, who replaced Dean Smith as manager in November. –The Sun 