The Herald Phillip Zulu Special Correspondent ZIMBABWE’S next AFCON game against Malawi tomorrow is a must-win encounter indeed, drastic changes have to be made from midfield up to the attackers by at least having both Admiral Muskwe and David Moyo starting as twin strikers to give us that physical presence and combative play upfront which was lacking in the previous game against Senegal. One of the two strikers will always drop to receive the ball in midfield and allow for play to continuously build up to progress into the final offensive third. Then we need to have Kuda Mahachi as one of the wide players to give us width and energy when going forward. Knowledge Musona should be the other winger who plays deeper in midfield to congest play and create more opportunities with either Muskwe or Moyo, then we have Jordan Zemura and Kundai Benyu in midfield to keep things tidy and smooth in retention of possession, quick link-up play and creativity. Zemura has a good engine in defensive duties and going forward, so we have to have him as our anchor man in midfield to help stabilise things in front of our goal when defending and also help us with the forward play of transition. The midfield of Benyu and Zemura will be a dream midfield that will unlock any defence in this tournament by the look of things. Then throw in Musona as a mix of experience and an eye on goals, with Muskwe as an additional goal getter, surely we can start getting some goals much earlier than expected. Kuda Mahachi could still offer us that unpredictability of pace on the flanks and sudden change of directions when one versus one scenarios arise in wide areas so that we can get crosses in the box early for our two combative strikers, Muskwe and Moyo. On the left flank of the defensive side, I would slot in Bruce Kangwa so that we can get a bit of energy going forward to increase the weight of the attack. The only problem is on the right back where Takudzwa Chimwemwe is too hesitant to go forward as his attacking prowess and ability to overlap in deep acres of space behind the defence is quite evident to see from the previous game. If we can get Kangwa on the left back as a roving fullback who goes forward a lot, then get two young energetic midfielders like Zemura, aided by an experienced Musona who always drops in deep to assist and Muskwe/Moyo positioning for a forward support play in central areas of our offensive play, then definitely goals will come. I will give Prince Dube the last 30 minutes of the game so that he can come in with fresh legs to capitalise on a defence that has been overworked and overwhelmed by combative players who have that physical intensity of tiring them. We still stand a very good chance, let’s get our strategy right in terms of the midfield design that has a huge potential of creating more assured quick forward offensive play and, they also have that technical ability to retain the ball with composure in all areas of the game. Teenage Hadebe and Gerald Takwara should retain their positions without any doubt. The goalie, Petros Mhari, is an obvious choice. Onismor Bhasera, Kelvin Madzongwe, Ishmail Wadi and Prince Dube should all be on the bench to allow for a more offensive tactical approach to the game. Tino Kadewere is best suited when he comes in as a substitute to gel with such an offensive strategy, the players on the pitch will give that extra quality on the ball in terms of passing or creativity, he will surely thrive in this game-plan.