The Herald YAOUNDE. — Cameroon, the host nation of the Total Energies African Cup of Nations 2021, will look for a winning start to the tournament when they face Group A rivals Burkina Faso at the Olembe Stadium tomorrow. Kick-off is at 6pm. Cameroon are one of the traditional powerhouses of the Nations Cup, having won five titles (only Egypt, seven titles, are more successful in the tournament’s history). The Indomitable Lions were kings of Africa as recently as 2017 and are under pressure to make it six — though they will need to build momentum right from the start. The hosts will look to their experienced players to carry the burden of expectation, with the likes of Vincent Aboubakar, Eric Maxim Choupo-Moting, Karl Toko Ekambi and Michael Ngadeu-Ngadjui all seasoned at international level. “We will have to put a tactical strategy with the creativity of our players to make the difference. Nowadays there are no easy matches. A lot of difficulties are expected but we are prepared and ready to go into battle,” said Cameroon coach Toni Conceicao. Burkina Faso, meanwhile, are returning to the AFCON after missing out on the 2019 edition in Egypt. They finished an impressive third in 2017 and were runners-up in 2013 — their two best showings in the history of the tournament. The Stallions also boast some experienced campaigners — headlined by Aston Villa striker Bertrand Traore, as well as defenders Steeve Yago and Issoufou Dayo — and they will revel in being the underdogs in this opening game. Coach Kamou Malo says he would prefer “a team that goes into the competition with a lot of fears”, adding: “If at the beginning of a competition you get a good result it’s always flattering but it’s not always indicative.” In head-to-head stats, Cameroon and Burkina Faso have met in nine matches across all competitions since 1998, with the Indomitable Lions claiming four wins compared to one for the Stallions, while four games have been drawn. The teams last met in an African Nations Championship (CHAN) group stage match in Yaounde in January 2021, with the clash ending all square at 0-0. Meanwhile, workers are applying final touches to the fan zones in Yaounde ahead of the long-awaited launch this weekend of Africa’s biggest sporting event. Beset by months of problems and uncertainty, the month-long Africa Cup of Nations gets under way tomorrow when host nation Cameroon play Burkina Faso. Preparations to get the giant screens, shops, restaurants and fan space ready for thousands of supporters in the nation’s capital are definitely in last-minute mode. “We Cameroonians love to leave everything to the last gasp,” laughs Simon Atangana, a former national player who is part of an organisation setting up the fan zones. “Everything will of course be ready. AFCON is going to be a huge party, and the pictures will be spread around the world.” But a familiar foe — coronavirus — is a potential fly in the ointment. The global pandemic forced the postponement of AFCON from last year, and fears of another delay were eased only last month. The Confederation of African Football has set down tough rules in a bid to prevent AFCON becoming a super-spreader event. Those wanting to enter the stadium must be completely vaccinated — in a country where just six percent of the adult population has been jabbed — and show a negative PCR test for the virus that is less than 72 hours old. Venues have been limited to 60 percent of capacity, although this is being raised to 80 percent when Cameroon’s “Indomitable Lions” take the field. The rampant spread of the Omicron variant is casting a pall over team lineups. Gabon’s Arsenal star Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang is the latest player to test positive and may miss his country’s Group C open match against Comoros on Monday. “We asked CAF whether we can replace some of our players who got infected with Covid-19 but the answer is no,” said The Gambia’s coach, Tom Saintfiet. “If this still remains to be the case, it could be a catastrophe . . . but according to the current rules, we are not allowed to replace anybody in the final list of 28-men squad.” In Yaounde’s Warda Square, hawkers of flags, shirts and vuvuzela horns say they have had a slow start in trade. “Business hasn’t taken off yet as much as I would like, but I’m optimistic,” said Arnaud Medja (29), dressed from head to toe in Cameroon’s national colours of green, yellow and red. “It’s just taking more time than scheduled. It’s just the Covid rules which have come along and put a dampener on things.” — AFP.