The Herald Sports Reporter
SOUTH AFRICA-based funeral and repatriations service provider ZORORO-Phumulani say they believe the Warriors badly need the 12th man to achieve their goals and have dispatched popular football supporter Chris “Romario” Musekiwa in an all-expenses paid trip to Cameroon to cheer the team on at the AFCON tournament. Musekiwa left the country yesterday and was expected to arrive in time for Zimbabwe’s opening Group B match against Senegal this afternoon. Many countries travel with their fans to such tournaments to ensure they get backing and colour in the terraces. However, ZIFA this year failed to arrange the trip for the supporters, who have traditionally been part of the Warriors band since their maiden appearance in Tunisia in 2004. It is unfortunate the rescheduled 2021 edition is taking place at an unusual time when the world is grappling with Covid-19. But CAF have confirmed that fully vaccinated fans will be allowed into the stadium and Covid-19 protocols will be adhered to. Zororo-Phumulani Marketing Manager Tendai Mangoti yesterday said Zimbabweans should rally behind the Warriors’ cause. “The company fully appreciates the need of having the 12th man in the stadium when the Zimbabwe national soccer team, the Warriors, take on Senegal at the Stade Kouekong in the first group B match. “Chris “Romario” Musekiwa has become a permanent feature at all the AFCON tournaments that the Warriors have participated in since their first appearance at the tournament in Tunisia in 2004,” the company said in a statement. “Musekiwa was voted Fan of the match in 2017 when Zimbabwe played against Tunisia. Zororo-Phumulani has a tradition of celebrating life and success and it is against this background that the company saw it noble to send the Warriors number one supporter to Cameroon to raise the Zimbabwean flag high. “The company also has a history with the Zimbabwe national soccer team. “During the 2019 AFCON tournament the company gave the team a $1 000 incentive for every goal that they scored during the tournament. “Zororo-Phumulani calls for support from all Zimbabweans at home and those in the diaspora when the Warriors take on Senegal on Monday. “The company will continue to support and to celebrate Zimbabwean success stories.” Musekiwa said he was delighted to attend his fifth AFCON finals. “He has never missed a tournament where Zimbabwe was involved. “I would like to express my sincere gratitude to Zororo-Phumulani for their wonderful and exciting gesture making my trip to AFCON 2021 possible. “As supporters we are the 12th player hence our presence in Cameroon will boost the morale of the team. “Zororo-Phumulani have given me a great opportunity to go and mobilise support and rally behind our Warriors. “While in Cameroon I will indeed raise the Zimbabwe flag high and the Zororo-Phumulani brand. “We have a team good enough to cause major upsets in Cameroon hence it needs every form of support,” said Musekiwa.