The Herald THE Warriors’ morale has been boosted ahead of their African Cup of Nations Group B crunch match against Malawi when they received the second batch of their allowances yesterday. Zimbabwe play Malawi in a make-or-break tie here this evening. And the allowances wouldn’t have come at the ideal time. Since their arrival in Cameroon on December 30 last year, the Warriors have never complained because the conditions of service are top-notch. They received the first instalment of their appearance allowances last week and the Government promised to deliver the remainder before their match against Malawi. True to their word, the authorities yesterday paid the players in cash as the team prepare to take on Malawi. The allowances are for the players’ participation at the biannual jamboree and this is the initial injection for the three group games. Zimbabwe are in Group B together with Malawi, Senegal and Guinea. Should the team progress to the knock-out stages, the Government has promised to bring in more money before they troop onto the pitch. Head of mission for Team Zimbabwe, Benson Martins Dube, who is the chief director in the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation, said the Government has always honoured its promises. “The players got the first batch of their appearance fees last week and they have also received the remainder today (yesterday),” he said. “This is why you are seeing the morale in the camp is at its highest. I think this is the first time in several years that we have not heard about players having secret meetings in camp. “This means they are happy and focused on the tournament at hand. If you look at the way they applied themselves against Senegal, you will find out that they have no worries at the back of their minds. “They showed a lot of intent and as we speak everyone has received their appearance fees for the entire group games, in cash. “What we did as Government was to make sure the players get what is due to them first. “We gave them the initial payment ahead of their match against Senegal and promised to deliver the second instalment this week. “We have done all we can to make sure the team stays happy and we have made a commitment to always make sure the players are focused on the game only. “As Government, we are behind the team and we wish them all the best in the match against Malawi. We understand it is a must-win game for us and we are ready to pay extra allowances should the team progress beyond the group stages.” All the 23 players in camp expressed gratitude to the Government. Jordan Zemura, who was not available when the players got the first payment, also received his money on arrival in Cameroon on Wednesday. The Government has decided to keep the amount of the allowance confidential ,but the players are happy the amount is way above what they were expecting.