The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter CHARLES Manyuchi has set up camp in Zambia ahead of his WBF title defence against Tanzania’s Said Mbelwa in Lusaka on January 29. The 32-year-old Zimbabwean boxer is leaving nothing to chance as he bids to defend the middleweight crown for the third time on the bounce. Manyuchi has been in camp for the past month and on Wednesday, he received a brand new vehicle from his principal sponsors, MR T35, before he left for Zambia yesterday. So determined is the Mutoko-bred pugilist he is already in-weight three weeks before the much anticipated fight. Manyuchi won the belt in September 2019 when he beat Diego Diaz Gallardo of Argentina at the Harare International Conference Centre before warding off the challenge of Uganda’s Muhamad Sebyala in Masvingo in July last year to keep the belt. The boxer, the only one to have won a world title in this country, was rewarded by President Mnangagwa with a US$10 000 gift after his heroics against Sebyla in a fight he claimed 3-0 despite lack of fans due to a spike in Covid-19 cases then. The former WBC silver welterweight champion is, however, set for a more challenging showdown against the highly-rated Mbelwa. “I don’t normally want to speak when I am getting into camp. I prefer working hard in camp, talking less and being loud enough when I get into the ring,” said Manyuchi. “Well, I am very much humbled by the support that I have been receiving from the generality of Zimbabweans across the globe. “I have been receiving good luck messages and they continue to hit my inbox frequently. I want to appreciate that; it means a lot to me. “I have been in camp over the past four or so weeks, working on the aspects of my boxing which I feel need improvement. I have never been in the ring since July 3 2021 when I beat Sebyala. That means I have to work very hard to be in shape to fight. “Now I have decided to get into camp in Zambia. I will spend the next three weeks in Lusaka, training before the fight. I am sure I will get some tough sparring partners who will help condition me for the bout against Mbelwa.” Manyuchi is currently being drilled by Zambian mentor Greetings Kaonga, who he also worked with in the build-up to the fight against Sebyala last year. Ordinarily, Manyuchi was supposed to defend his crown at home but he has decided to once again experience the sentimental attachment he shares with the Zambians who helped nurture him into the boxer he has become. With boxing down the cliff in this country, Manyuchi was adopted by Chris Malunga of the Oriental Quarries Promotions and was afforded a chance to flourish between 2010 and 2016. Despite his stable’s (Charles Manyuchi Boxing Academy) partnership with the Exodus Promotions who are also based in Zambia, Manyuchi accepted his bout to be promoted by the man he regards as a father-figure, Malunga. “It’s my small way of saying thank you. I owe the better part of my success to Oriental Quarries.” On a record of 25-4-1, Manyuchi would be buoyed by the fact that he is coming at the back of three consecutive wins while his opponent has lost as many fights including two via knock-outs. “Somehow it gives me some psychological edge over my opponent. Boxing is as physical as it is also mental. But real boxing is fought in the ring so I am preparing for the fight. I know of boxers who were knocked out when they faced some fighters who didn’t have good records. “At the end of the day, it is about going out there, apply the techniques right and win the fight.”