The Herald Herald Reporter
The People’s Republic of China has bemoaned the persistent negative press and social media reports targeting Chinese businesses in Zimbabwe. President Xi Jinping’s administration, through its embassy in Harare, noted that Western media outlets were spreading fake news about Chinese investment in Zimbabwe. The Chinese Embassy in Harare was responding to false allegations levelled against a local mining concern with business interests in Mutoko. “Some Western media outlets keep smearing Chinese investment in Zimbabwe by making and spreading fake news. “They are not guardians of the interests of the Zimbabwean people, but guardians of illegal sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe. Spooking Chinese investors in Zimbabwe is what they really want,” reads part of the tweet. The Asian economic powerhouse has stood with Zimbabwe in a very strong way at a time the country has been isolated from the family of nations. In a statement, Jinding Mining Zimbabwe (Private) Limited (Jinding), a Chinese-owned Zimbabwean registered mining company with mining interests in Mutoko said they had compensated families displaced by their operations. The company said they had been operating in Zimbabwe for many years and had always complied with the laws of the land with respect to its mining operations. It said the company had all the legal mining certificates and a valid Environmental Impact Assessment Certificate. “There is a malicious and false accusation currently being circulated to the effect that Jinding has not properly compensated two Mutoko families for relocating those families from the Jinding mining claims there,” reads part of the statement. “As for the so-called relocation of 50 households, it is even more rumours and slander. The fact is that the mining project only involves relocation of three families. These accusations are completely groundless. Jinding has all the relocation contracts and payment proof of proper compensation for the two families relocated by Jinding arising out of its mining operations. The compensation amounts cited in the media stories are false. “The exact amounts were determined by mutual consent to the satisfaction of the relocated families and with the knowledge of the local councillor, the community and representatives of villagers,” said Jinding in a statement. The mining concern said it would take legal action against people peddling false accusations. “We will also request our lawyer to send a letter to relevant press and request relevant press to clarify the facts to the public and apologise to Jinding Mining.”