The Herald Senior Court Reporter
TWO suspected armed robbers appeared in court yesterday on allegations of robbing a taxi driver plying his trade in Harare’s city centre of his vehicle at gunpoint after hiring him. Devine Comma (24) and Hugo Soul Harry (41) were not asked to plead to the charges when they appeared before magistrate Mrs Yeukai Dzuda, who remanded them in custody to January 26. The two allegedly robbed Forbes Kapfungure (37) of his taxi. The court heard that on December 22 last year at around 10pm Kapfungure parked his Toyota Sienta, (AFF3524) at Copacabana terminus waiting for clients when the two approached him. They then allegedly hired him to Cranborne for US$15. Upon reaching Cranborne, the duo changed direction and asked Kapfungure to drive to Mabvuku and he agreed. It is said that when they reached an area near Eastview Primary School in Mabvuku, the duo asked Kapfungure to stop, saying they had arrived at their final destination. The court heard that Comma and Harry produced a pistol and told Kapfungure that they were criminals and tied him up. They then robbed him of the car and other valuables. On the following day, detectives were told that the car was dumped near Mufakose High 1 School. They discovered that the wheel spanner, car radio, jack, Itel cellphones, black satchel with jumpers and a wrist watch were all missing. On January 3 this year Southerton police were told that Comma was involved in the heist and he implicated Harry. Another suspected armed robber Tinashe Muguti (35) and Malvin Magumura (32) appeared before the same court after they allegedly robbed Noremore Arubhi and Annah Chinzambwa on December 22 last year. They were not asked to plead to the charges and were remanded in custody to January 19. It alleged that the two armed themselves with a pistol, a boltcutter and iron bars and went to Arubhi and Chinzambwa’s residence where they stole US$1 500, R2 000, three cellphones, some groceries, four pairs of shoes and Arubhi’s Nissan Caravan vehicle, a welding machine, US$300 and Chinzambwa’s Toyota Wish (AFO 2311).