The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter TRIATHLON Zimbabwe resume their competition tomorrow at Mount Pleasant swimming pool with the youth athletes seeking to accumulate points for selection into the touring team. They took a break for the festive season and hopes are high for an interesting last half of the 2021–2022 season. Tomorrow’s event will be part of the selection races for the youth – Under-13 and Under-15 – who are chasing qualification for the South African Triathlon National Championships. For the rest of the participants it will be a fun event as the last half of the season begins. Posting on their Facebook, Triathlon Zimbabwe said tomorrow’s race is selection race number four for the youth. “As the South African Triathlon National Championships draw closer and selection criteria to be met, our youth and juniors will be putting even more efforts in to their race performances and to achieve the points required for selection to the touring team – this Sunday will be selection race number four for the youth Under-13-Under-15 Supersprint girls and boys. So we look forward to seeing all of you there.” National coach, Pamela Fulton, said they are looking forward to an interesting event. “Our Youth (Under-13 and Under-15) are gearing up for South African Championships which are on February 13 in Maselspoort, Bloemfontein. Sunday’s event will be their fourth out of five selection races, with the last one end of January. “For everyone else, Sunday’s event is a fun event allowing them to ease into 2022 gently,” said Fulton. Some of the athletes have already accumulated the required points for qualification and Fulton said it will be interesting to see how the other athletes that are still chasing qualification fare tomorrow. “We have 11 athletes trying to qualify to go on tour — five girls and six boys. The majority from the Under-15 category. “Anje Van As and Rohnan Nicholson at this stage have already acquired the required number of points in order to qualify. “Nicole Madya and Callum Smith are the next closest to qualify. It will be interesting to see these athletes’ results on Sunday and see who has been training hard over the Christmas break,” said Fulton.