The Herald Business Reporter
Never Sleep Security (Pvt) Ltd, a new kid on the block in the security sector, says it is geared to disrupt, in a positive way, an industry that has been dominated by a few players and service providers that are falling short of clients expectations. Never Sleep Security, a subsidiary of Craft Properties Holdings, was formed in 2020 to address the need for specialised and confidential services in security and investigations for the private individuals as well as the corporate commercial businesses and public sectors. Taking pride in its unique approach to the business of security provision to its clients, Never Sleep Security’s services entails training and vetting before posting security guards to sites.Craft Properties Holdings chief executive Professor Kudakwashe Taruberekera said the new division would rock the security sector in a gigantic way as it comes from an organisation with huge endorsement from stakeholders. “This baby is being born in a company that is well known for excellent service provision and we are expecting to cause positive vibes in the sector while ensuring quality service for our clients” he said. Mr Taruberekera said taking their experience from Craft Properties Holdings and its subsidiaries, Never Sleep Security  expected to spread its wings across Zimbabwe. “Our services in Craft Properties are sector specific and we serve clients where our services are required but in the security service we would definitely cover the whole of Zimbabwe,” he said. He said Never Sleep Security’s guards were always well groomed, highly trained and always uniformed. “We have a comprehensive strategy to mitigate the possibility and opportunity for theft of property or injury to persons within the facility. We are also in the process of recruiting senior and experienced staff who would steer our ship to greater coasts in the near future,” he said. At Never Sleep Security, technology makes the world go round with the promising security company recognising the importance of using the highest technological advancement in rooting out criminal activity. “We are committed to remaining informed and up to date with technological improvements in the market place. Most of our senior members are former highly trained security personnel with years of experience in Criminal Investigations, commercial crime, fraud, serious and violent crimes and corruption investigations as well as specialist experience in VIP protection.” Mr Taruberekera’s experience in the security sector is also set to be key in the development of the Never Sleep Security having worked at the Deputy Sheriff and Messenger of Court under Ministry of Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Aversy Security Services, Kadoma Branch operations director of Amark Security Services. Never Sleep Security (Pvt) Ltd is an affiliate of Craft Properties Holdings, which has various subsidiary companies in Zimbabwe that include Craft Properties and Craft Properties Land Development and Construction (Pvt) Ltd. It also has registered arms internationally and regionally namely Craft Properties USA LLC in the United States of America, Craft Properties Zambia Limited, CPH Holdings Botswana and Craft Properties Namibia. Guided by its vision to provide technology-enhanced security interventions to investigate, control and manage both actual and suspected security violations and contraventions, Never Sleep Security says it will be a game changer in the industry. It focuses on a mission ensuring that it becomes the partner of choice for all its customers in all the markets while consistently exceeding its financial targets over time for the benefit of stakeholders. The security company will definitely attract, challenge and retain the most capable people in the industry with respect to the communities and environment they serve. Providing service and protecting its clients at all costs under all circumstances and control, using integrity and confidentiality as a prime philosophy, Never Sleep Security is confident to be a game-changer in defence and protection of its clients.