The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Fashion 263 Well, while many people may have returned to work, some have not yet fully adjusted as they are still trying to settle into the New Year. However, now that Janu-worry is almost over, things will start looking better. You may now want to dress up in more lavish clothes that will not only enhance your mood but possibly improve your productivity, too. Quick guide from my favourite fashion critic Thobile Mazibuko. Here are a few fashion-forward tips to improve your mood! 1: Brighten up to lighten up Bright colours like reds, pinks and oranges unleash the feel-good hormone. Get in the habit of wearing something bright even if it’s lipstick or nail polish, to enhance your mood. 2: Boost your height Sometimes height adds to your confidence, self-esteem and good spirits. Rock a pair of heels at least twice a week and stand up tall. Make sure you go for the most comfortable pair, especially if you work long hours. 3: Happy scents Some people are drawn to gorgeous scents to uplift their mood. Be sure to wear your favourite fragrance so that you can kick-start your day in a jovial mood. You can also keep a tin of body spray in your handbag that you spray throughout the day, whenever you need some “cheer me up”. 4: Accessorise Accessories will always make you feel better because they add more flair to your outfit. If you’re not too much into jewellery, invest in a good handbag. It can make you feel good about yourself. Well, I had an argument with my fashion friend Hollywood Lee over the issue of wearing and how to wear blazers. To begin with, we were invited to some fashion council meeting and she wore a blazer with sequins. Glittering and shimmering, okay, if you were not sure looking from behind, one would mistake her for Lady Gaga. But that is how to describe Hollywood Lee. She knows her fashion statement. She said “The world is your runway, dress the part.” We entered the room and some were scantily dressed and we immediately forgave them because they didn’t get the memo by the way while others were not fashion icons. But how then do you wear a blazer? For now it is time for you to stop wondering and focus on types and styles. With the passage of time, blazers have undergone significant transformations, and you are provided with umpteen options. So scroll down and find them all! Types of blazers Blazers come in all colours, prints, cuts, and fabrics, and your options now are practically endless. Whatever it is that you choose to go for, you need to know the basic styles and understand how to buy them. Every brand has its own take on these, but the fundamentals remain the same. Let’s take a look at them. Single Breasted or Buttoned Blazer A single button or single-breasted suit essentially has one button that connects the sides of your blazer. This style suits all body types and occasions. Choose fabrics and styles that are slightly informal if it’s not for work. This style has been in fashion for over 70 years now. Double breasted or buttoned blazer Two buttons blazers are extremely formal, and more popular than your regular/single button blazer. It has more fabric and covers your shirt, unlike the single button ones. People are moving out of the single-breasted blazer wagon because the idea of a formal blazer has changed over time. Peplum blazer Peplum blazer is incredibly fancy, and takes the shape of the peplum cut. There’s something about this cut that makes these look irresistible. You get both elegant and formal variants in these. They look exceptionally good with formal skirts and pencil pants. Waterfall blazer Waterfall blazer is not a blazer per se, but this is more blazer than your shrug. It has caught on like wildfire. Office wear, power dressing, work look, etc. are evolving rapidly, and these are getting acceptable at work, and otherwise too. Tips from Style Craze on how to wear a blazer Blazer With A button down shirt Blazers for work used to mean a complete matching suit, but that has changed now. While there’s nothing wrong with wearing matching suits, matching separates is the new thing. Pencil skirt and a white button-down shirt with a brown checkered single-breasted blazer looks dapper. Informal blazer with skinny jeans/leggings If you are all about flaunting your legs in a skinny pair of jeans and pairing that with a blazer, go for a plain shirt, preferably white, and go all out with a casual blazer. Swap your jeans with a pair of leggings or jeggings to take the look a notch higher. Black Sequin Blazer A crop top style-sequin blazer with a pair of printed pants will take your party look to a whole new level. If the blazer comes with a simple sequin bordering, go with a sequin tank top; or, just stick to basics like a tube or spaghetti top. Put your hair up in a chignon updo, and wear lipstick, wedges, and a sling bag.