The Herald LONDON. — Manchester City could move 14 points clear at the top of the English Premier League football table today but erstwhile challengers Chelsea are looking nervously over their shoulders after a slump in form. Pep Guardiola’s side travel to Southampton today looking for their 13th consecutive league win, with second-placed Liverpool not in action until the following day. But the race for the top four is hotting up, with third-placed Chelsea suddenly vulnerable after picking up just three points in their past four games. Tottenham are yet to suffer a league defeat under Antonio Conte after their incredible 3-2 victory against Leicester in midweek, in which Steven Bergwijn scored twice in stoppage-time. Spurs are desperate to qualify for the Champions League after missing out for two years in a row and they now find themselves just one point behind fourth-placed West Ham with three games in hand before their trip to Stamford Bridge. Conte, who has called for reinforcements in the January transfer window, was proud of his side’s attitude after the incredible turnaround at the King Power Stadium on Wednesday. “Don’t give up,” said the Italian, who took over in early November. “This must be our philosophy — don’t give up and fight until the end.” But Thomas Tuchel faces a battle to rediscover Chelsea’s mojo, unable to hide his frustrations over his under-performing forwards, including record signing Romelu Lukaku. The Blues topped the English Premier League table early last month but a dismal run of just two wins from nine top-flight games since has left their title challenge in tatters. German boss Tuchel, whose team are eight points ahead of Tottenham having played four more games, knows he must stop the rot or risk the season unravelling. David Moyes takes West Ham to Manchester United today seeking a rare win at Old Trafford to boost his team’s top-four chances and deal a blow to his former club. English Premiership Fixtures Today: Everton v Aston Villa (2:30pm); Brentford v Wolves (5pm); Leeds v Newcastle (5pm); Manchester United v West Ham (5pm); Southampton v Manchester City (7:30pm). Tomorrow: Arsenal v Burnley (4pm); Crystal Palace v Liverpool (4pm); Leicester v Brighton (4pm); Chelsea v Tottenham (6:30pm).— AFP.