The Herald Eddie Chikamhi and Bipin Dani THE Zimbabwe national cricket team arrived in Sri Lanka yesterday for the three-match One Day International Series which begins this week. The Chevrons, who are being led by veteran batter Craig Ervine, left the country at the weekend after a spending a week in training camp. The series, form part of the Super League and critical for the 2023 ICC World Cup qualification, will be played at the Pallekelle International Stadium behind closed doors in conformity with the anti-Covid-19 health guidelines. Sri Lanka will go out strong favourites on a sound record of 44 wins to Zimbabwe’s 11 with two no- results from 57 exchanges. Ervine has been entrusted with the responsibility to lead Zimbabwe once again after he captained the team for the limited-overs tour to Ireland and Scotland in August-September last year. Zimbabwe named a 15-man squad that includes the uncapped duo of opening batter Takudzwanashe Kaitano and wicketkeeper Clive Madande, while all-rounder Tino Mutombodzi has returned to the national side. The games, which start this Sunday, will be day-night affairs. The next games will be played next week Tuesday and Friday. Zimbabwe coach Lalchand Rajput was confident of his charges, most of whom have been in good form on the domestic front. “Every game is very important for us because Super League games will decide who can qualify automatically (for the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup 2023), hence it is important that we prepare well and start well,” he told the Zimbabwe Cricket website. “I am a very confident person and always believe that we can beat Sri Lanka considering that we have had good game time playing the Pro50 tournament.” Zimbabwe have won only two of their nine Super League matches to date, while they also shared spoils in one of the games which were rained off. They currently sit bottom of the 13-team table. “We have not started off well in the Super League, but I am confident that with the players in form during the Pro50 matches we will do well against Sri Lanka. “If we play our best cricket and to our potential, with our best players, there is every chance that we can qualify directly,” said Rajput. The Chevrons, who were last in action three months ago during the tour of the United Kingdom, are part of the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup Super League, which is a qualification pathway to the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup 2023. The ICC Cricket World Cup Super League is a 13-team tournament that will take place across two years and will determine which teams qualify to the CWC 2023. A team gets 10 points for a win and five for no result. Zimbabwe currently sit at the bottom of the table with 25 points from nine games. They won two games and lost six while one match was declared no result. Zimbabwe arrived in Sri Lanka at a time their hosts are facing a Covid-19 scare prior to the series. Reports from the island nation said top order batsman Avishka Fernando tested positive while uncapped Janith Liyanage’s PCR test also turned positive following random testing that was conducted at the weekend. The Sri Lankan team was scheduled to enter the bio-secure bubble yesterday in Kandy. Fernando and Liyanage were withdrawn from the squad and replacements will be named for them. Fernando is one of Sri Lanka’s key players but his participation was anyway in doubt after he had failed the skin fold test. Sri Lanka’s selectors had warned of dire consequences for anyone who did not meet minimum fitness standards. Liyanage was drafted into the squad on his good performances in LPL. Captain Dasun Shanaka and leading paceman Dushmantha Chameera also had tested positive late last month. With the bans of Kusal Mendis, Niroshan Dickwella and Danushka Gunathilaka lifted, the trio’s return will strengthen Sri Lanka. The three players were serving a year’s ban that was supposed to end in June this year, but Sri Lanka Cricket lifted the ban after six months having receiving positive feedback on their rehabilitation. Meanwhile, Zimbabwe’s national cricket team head coach Lalchand Rajput tested Covid-19 positive on arrival in Sri Lanka. The 60-year-old Indian national reached Colombo, from Mumbai, on Sunday. “I gave antigen tests with all other players and support staff, who came from Harare early in the morning on Monday and only my result showed positive”. “I have no symptoms of temperature, cold or cough. I am surprised with the results”. The Zimbabwean team has left for Kandy, where the One Day International series is expected to take place, leaving Rajput in Colombo for the mandatory isolation. “I will be in isolation for a few days. Another test will be conducted on the third day and if it comes favourable, I will be able to join the team bio-bubble,” he added. The visiting team will also spend three days in quarantine before the players can begin their training. In Rajput’s absence, the team will train under batting and bowling coaches Stuart Matsikenyeri and Douglas Hondo respectively. ZIMBABWE SQUAD: Ervine Craig (captain), Burl Ryan, Chakabva Regis, Chatara Tendai, Jongwe Luke, Kaitano Takudzwanashe, Madande Clive, Madhevere Wessly, Masakadza Wellington, Mutombodzi Tinotenda, Muzarabani Blessing, Ngarava Richard, Raza Sikandar, Shumba Milton, Williams Sean