The Herald Eddie Chikamhi
Senior Sports Reporter
THE Zimbabwe Under-19 cricket team’s preparations for the ICC Under-19 Men’s World Cup remained on course after the side claimed a third successive win over Ireland in a practice match on Saturday. The Prosper Utseya-coached side clinched a four-wicket win to claim the four-match series with a 3-0 lead. The sides were expected to engage in the final match of the series yesterday, with all the players getting the chance to feel the competition ahead of the global youth tournament. The Zimbabweans made light work of their opponents on Saturday when they dismissed Ireland Under-19 for 118 runs. They then wrapped up the game after coasting to 120/6, in just over 30 overs. Just like the opening two matches, the team won the toss but this time decided to bowl first. They put in a fine shift in the field and had the Ireland Under-19 side all out for 118 runs in 38.5 overs. Connor Mitchell was the pick of the Zimbabwean bowlers with figures of 3-35. Alex Falao and vice-captain Brian Bennett finished with two wickets apiece while Victor Chirwa took one. Bennett made the breakthrough in the eighth over when he trapped David Vincent (8) before the opening pair could settle. Ireland were further reduced to 28/2 when Jack Dickson (11) was bowled out by Falao. Wickets continued to fall at regular intervals despite the resistance by Joshua Cox (29) and skipper Tim Tector (37) who notched up a 57-run partnership for the third wicket. Apart from that, no other partnership blossomed as the Zimbabwean bowlers kept digging at their opponents. Zimbabwe’s chase got off to an indifferent start after losing both openers – Rogan Wolhuter and Matthew Welch – for ducks. Zimbabwe then lost captain Emmanuel Bawa (29), David Bennett (17) and Mitchell (3). But Brian Bennett (42) and Tanunurwa Makoni (12) came through in the lower middle order to see the team home. Bennett’s unbeaten knock of 42 runs comprised four boundaries and two sixes.  Makoni was also unbeaten as he provided the support that his belligerent partner needed. This was the third win in succession for Zimbabwe in the four-match series. Zimbabwe won the first match by 55 runs and the second by 140 runs. Middle order batsman David Bennett was the highest scorer with 59 runs in the first game as Zimbabwe put on 241 runs on the board in their 50 overs. The Zimbabwean bowlers also put in some good work as Ireland were dismissed for 186 runs in 46.3 overs. Victor Chirwa took four wickets. The bowlers were also instrumental in the second match when Zimbabwe claimed a huge 140-runs win. Spinner Tendekai Mataranyika was outstanding with a five-wicket haul. Mataranyika’s 5-15 was key after the Zimbabweans had endured a poor start with the bat. They went on to dismiss their opponents for meagre 70 runs. Earlier in that game, Zimbabwe had suffered a batting collapse after sliding to 68/7 in the first 25 overs. But brisk half centuries from Brian Bennet (65) and Connor Mitchell (73) in the lower middle order helped the side recover and post a competitive score. Zimbabwe ended the innings on 210 runs in 49.1 overs, albeit with eight batters out for single digit scores. Both teams are using the series as part of the preparations for the International Cricket Council Under-19 Cricket World Cup 2022, which begins in the West Indies on January 14. Zimbabwe squad: Emmanuel Bawa (captain), Brian Bennett (vice-captain), David Bennett, Victor Chirwa, Mgcini Dube, Alex Falao, Tendekai Mataranyika, Tashinga Makoni, Connor Mitchell, Steven Saul, Matthew Schonken, Panashe Taruvinga, Matthew Welch, Rogan Wolhuter, Ngenyasha Zvinoera Non-travelling reserves: Aisha Chibanda, Tanaka Zvaita, Luyanda Mtomba, Tadiwanashe Mwale, Declan Rugg.