The Herald MELBOURNE. — Novak Djokovic says he is intent on competing at the Australian Open tennis tournament after he was freed from government detention in Australia yesterday. The 34-year-old, who has been held at a detention hotel since last Wednesday, has already resumed training ahead of the tournament which is due to begin on January 17. ‘’I’m pleased and grateful that the judge overturned my visa cancellation. Despite all that has happened, I want to stay and try to compete at the Australian Open,’’ Djokovic wrote in a message on social media. ‘’I remain focused on that. I flew here to play at one of the most important events we have in front of the amazing fans. ‘’For now I cannot say more but THANK YOU all for standing with me through all this and encouraging me to stay strong.’’ Djokovic was freed yesterday after an Australian federal judge overturned the government’s initial decision to cancel the 34-year-old’s visa last week. Tennis’ world No.1 had been detained since last Wednesday after border officials refused his medical exemption which allows him to enter Australia without having the Covid vaccine. During the court hearing, judge Anthony Kelly asked ‘’what more could this man have done?’’ to prove his exemption and criticised Australian government officials for not giving Djokovic enough time to provide more evidence before he was detained. Djokovic, who revealed during his interrogation with border officials that he is not vaccinated but tested positive for Covid in December, could still be deported as Australia’s immigration minister, Alex Hawke, has the ‘’personal power’’ to revoke the visa at any time, even though a decision was not made after the court’s ruling yesterday. A spokesperson for Hawke said last night: ‘’Following today’s Federal Court determination on a procedural ground, it remains within Immigration Minister Hawke’s discretion to consider cancelling Mr Djokovic’s visa under his personal power of cancellation within section 133C(3) of the Migration Act. — BBC Sport