The Herald Oscar Rusenga in Chiredzi TRIANGLE United have confirmed the appointment of seasoned gaffer Jairos Tapera as their new head coach. Tapera joined the Lowveld side from Black Rhinos where he was the technical advisor for the army side. He replaced Taurai Mangwiro who ended his five year stay in the sugarcane farming town last month. Club owners Tongaat Hulett Zimbabwe corporate affairs and communications officer, Wendy Tinarwo, confirmed the development. “Yes I can confirm that Jairos Tapera has joined the side, he has started work today (yesterday) as the new Triangle United Football Club technical manager. “As for squad additions and assistant coaches, we don’t have finer details as yet and we will advise once everything is finalised”. Tapera has vast experience in the game, having coached several premier league sides including current champions FC Platinum, Yadah, Telone and Shabanie Mine. He also coached Swaziland club Black Leopards. He is not new to Gibbo having coached Triangle in the division one league before they gained promotion to the topflight. Tapera, who is taking over three games into the season, will have to make some additions to an already depleted squad that lost goalkeeper Ronald Mudimu, who passed away late last year after a long illness. The Sugar Sugar Boys have also lost their captain Collins Dhuwa who joined Manica Diamonds and several senior players are yet to commit to the side after their contracts expired on New Year’s eve. Tapera will also have the privilege of selecting his assistants including the goalkeepers’ coach after Mangwiro and his backroom staff decided not to renew their contracts. Triangle had started their season well, collecting six points out of possible nine. They beat giants Dynamos and ZPC Kariba in the process. Tapera is expected to build from an excellent foundation laid by his predecessor. The Premiership season is currently on break. Clubs have also started beefing up with giants Highlanders and Bulawayo Chefs yesterday unveiling new players. Bosso announced the acquisition of experienced striker Stanley Ngala in a move that is expected to bolster their misfiring strike-force. They have also captured young goalkeeper Raphael Pitisi from TelOne. “We are glad to announce that we have completed the signing of centre forward Stanley Ngala from FC Platinum on a three-year deal,” said Highlanders in a brief statement. Ngala has previously played for Tsholotsho FC, Manica Diamonds and FC Platinum where he featured in the CAF Champions League. His arrival should be a welcome relief for coach Mandla Mpofu and his technical team. Bosso had gone for three games without scoring a goal when the 2021/22 domestic league season went on break in December last year. The giants are yet to taste victory this season. More signings are expected ahead of the resumption of the Premiership games in the second week of February. Bulawayo Chiefs announced the return of Warriors fringe player Perfect Chikwende. The pacy winger has been playing in Tanzania at Simba SC. Previously he had featured for champions FC Platinum where he also featured in CAF Champions League football. They also have unveiled veteran forward Obadiah Tarumbwa, Obriel Chirinda and Ghanaian youngster Dela Akorli. Dynamos this week announced the signing of left-back Brandon Mpofu and striker Evans Katema, who returns to the Glamour Boys after a stint in Zambia.