The Herald Kandy. — SEAN Williams scored his fifth One Day International century yesterday in Sri Lanka but the effort went in vain as Zimbabwe lost the first match of the series by five wickets at the Pallekele International Cricket Stadium in Kandy. The Chevrons, who had a fine day out with the bat, could have been left disappointed with themselves after failing to defend what looked a healthy 296/9. Sri Lanka took a deserved 1-0 lead in the series after easing to 300/5, with eight balls remaining. The three-match ODI series is part of ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup Super League. Zimbabwe’s batters gave their side a healthy chance on a flat Pallekele track. Williams was in brilliant form, scoring exactly 100 runs in an 87-ball knock that included nine fours and two sixes. Opening batsman Regis Chakabva showed that experience does matter with a contribution of 72 runs at the top. Debutant Takudzwanashe Kaitano (42) also impressed in the opening wicket stand of 80 runs off 88 balls with Chakabva. But with Kaitano out, trapped lbw by Jeffrey Vandersay, Chakabva went on to make 72 off 81 as Zimbabwe made steady progress towards a competitive total. Then Williams dominated the middle and late overs. A score of 300 had seemed a minimum at one point, but in the end it took them 10 runs off the final two deliveries of the innings to even get to 296 on this batter-friendly wicket. That score seemed about 30 runs too short at the time, and so it proved. Then with the ball, they failed to ever really threaten the Lankan batters, who found proceedings all too easy, with dismissals generally batter error more than anything else. “Very disappointed. I thought the guys set the platform really well, but Sri Lanka bowled really well at the death and we were about 20-30 runs short. I also thought we missed our lengths and gave away a few too many four balls,” Williams told Cricinfo. Although Zimbabwe made 296 for 9 — generally an excellent first innings score on Sri Lankan surfaces — the home side’s top order had the measure of the target. They had three major contributors. Opener Pathum Nissanka hit the first half-century of his ODI career, making 75 off 71 to set the chase up. Then number four Dinesh Chandimal and number five Charith Asalanka took the baton, putting on a match-defining 129-run stand, hitting 75 off 91 and 71 off 68 respectively. In the end, they got there with five wickets and eight balls to spare. On a surface that was not particularly conducive to turn, the seamers of both teams made bigger contributions. For Sri Lanka, Chamika Karunaratne took three for 69 and Nuwan Pradeep claimed two for 54, both bowling their full quotas. Zimbabwe’s standout was Richard Ngarava, who claimed three for 56 from nine overs. Blessing Muzarabani and Sikandar Raza claimed one wicket apiece. Sri Lankan skipper Dasun Shanaka said: “I should first of all thank the crowd who came here in numbers, it was great support. 296 is always a tough score, but our batters showed their class in the run chase. I’m also happy with our strength in depth.” The next game will be played tomorrow at the same venue. — Sports Reporter/CricInfo.