The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter AS the Zimbabwe national football team prepare to plunge into the AFCON 2021 battle, one important appendage that had provided colour to their participation in previous editions will be missing in their battalion — the fans. The Warriors have always found comfort in their vibrant band of followers, who have provided loyal company since the team’s first AFCON appearance in 2004. Tournament organisers have said the doors will be opened for fans at the various hosting stadiums in Cameroon but Zimbabwe, for the first time, have not travelled with their supporters. The tournament this year comes under the shadows of Covid-19, which has made it complex for travelling fans because of the Covid-19 restrictions. However, the Cameroonian government have said international fans need to produce a Covid-19 vaccination certificate and a negative PCR test that is less than 72 hours old. The visa processing time has also been brought down from 72 to 48 hours. But applicants for visas on landing should reach the Ministry of External Relations at least one week before the date of arrival. Still the Zimbabwean fans may not be able to make it to Cameroon in their big numbers. ZIFA this year failed to organise the flight because of the chaos currently rocking the association. This has led to the Sports and Recreation Commission to take over the responsibility and make sure the team participates at the continental football showpiece. The Sports Commission revealed that they have set aside a US$1m budget for the Warriors. The budget however will not extend to the fans. The Zimbabwe National Soccer Supporters Association yesterday said they were appealing to the corporate world to chip in, ahead of the start of the tournament this weekend. The organisation’s secretary general Joseph Mutawu said supporters are key in the performance of the team, as the 12th man. “Supporters play a pivotal role for the success of a team. Most teams win big matches because of its fans and supporters urging the teams to fight on from the terraces. Supporters’ voices can intimidate opposing teams into submission. “Supporters raise the spirits of the players during these high profile tournaments like AFCON. Supporters are a morale-booster for the team. “They give players power and strength to play on even in difficult matches. No wonder supporters are labelled the twelfth man by football pundits because of this important role they play to the team. “Therefore, as ZNSSA, we urge our government and the corporate world to do whatever in their powers to deploy some supporters to Cameroon. “We know there are also companies and corporates out there who have passion for the Warriors, they can also chip in and sponsor a few supporters to the tournament. All they need is to get in touch with SRC or come directly to the Zimbabwe National Soccer Supporters Association.” The supporters’ leadership also saluted the role played by the Government in ensuring a smooth preparation and participation for the Warriors in Cameroon. “The SRC made it very clear that it was seized by making sure that the Warriors team was well catered for. They had made sure that the team had prepared well for the tournament, in terms of camping, travelling, and accommodation in Cameroon. “It also made sure that the team was paid its allowance on time to boost morale. All of these expenses were wholly financed by the government of Zimbabwe. “After all these expenses, the government was left with no money to send supporters to Cameroon. As ZNSSA we understood the government’s position and applaud them for making sure our Warriors were well taken care of. “We think this is the best tournament our team has travelled to, without glitch and drama. We have witnessed previous tournaments where the Warriors made last minute travel arrangements. “We have heard of non-payment of allowances to the players. Poor accommodation facilities etc but this time it is a different story altogether, except the need to send supporters,” said Mutawu. CAF have confirmed that fully vaccinated fans will be allowed entry into the various stadiums. The numbers have been limited though, to curb a possible outbreak of Covid-19. There has been a spike in new COVID-19 cases in Cameroon from December 2 when there were no new cases to 384 recorded on December 22. CAF released a statement on Tuesday reaffirming their commitment to the adherence of health protocols. “Following extensive consultation with Cameroon government in the light of the health crisis and the challenges imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic, CAF and the Local Organising Committee have agreed to cap the capacity of the stadiums during the TotalEnergies Africa Cup of Nations Cameroon 2021, between 60% and 80%. “The 80% capacity will apply only during the host nation, Cameroon, matches while the rest of the matches will be capped at 60% capacity. “Earlier in December, CAF and Cameroon government agreed on strict health protocols that will be followed including the fact that only vaccinated supporters will be allowed inside the match venues. “All the parties are still fully committed to the implementation of the agreement including other sanitary protocols that have been adopted. “CAF will continue to monitor the situation and the evolution of the health conditions and adapt measures if need be,” said the CAF statement.