The Herald THE Zimbabwe women’s Sevens Rugby side — the Lady Cheetahs — got a boost ahead of their preparations for the do-or-die clash with Lesotho in the Rugby Africa qualifiers after they received kits from RocoMamas on Wednesday. The Lady Cheetahs are expected to go into camp this Saturday and depart for Maseru on January 27 for the decisive match that will determine their fate on qualifying for the continental showcase scheduled for Tunisia in November. The Derick Chiwara-coached side received jerseys and tracksuits from the Sam Levy-based Simbisa Brands entity at their outlet in Borrowdale. Zimbabwe Rugby Union vice-president, Lawson Mtongwiza, in his acceptance speech, said they are happy to have partnered RocoMamas who have helped with the kits to use for their upcoming assignments. “We will go there and do well at the upcoming tournament after this kind gesture by our partner. Women’s rugby is growing from leaps and bounds in the country as we now have teams from as far as Sehumani in Chipinge who are playing the sport competitively. “By having these partners on board it gives the technical team and players something to motivate them, especially ahead of such big games,” said Mtongwiza. The Lady Cheetahs will have to clear the Lesotho hurdle before they travel to South Africa in July and a later tournament in Tunisia. Chiwara said he was looking forward to the tournament and was grateful for the kind gesture by RocoMamas, which will inspire the team. “As for preparations we are not that up-to-date as we have not had games for some time. The girls we have are experienced and I think they will adjust very quickly within the stipulated period. ‘’There is a lot of players who have played at the highest level and we have managed to retain them for this encounter. We are still hopeful that they continue to retain negative Covid-19 results as we go into camp,’’ said Chiwara. RocoMamas general manager, Lawrence Nyamuziwa, said they are happy to be associated with the Lady Cheetahs whom they think will do well in their upcoming events. “We took the initiative to support the Lady Cheetahs as the girl child is usually shunned in terms of support. I appeal to other corporates to come on board and help the team so that they do us proud as a nation. — Sports Reporter/ Zim Sport Live