The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter NEW Dynamos recruit Keith Murera believes the Glamour Boys are well-placed to reclaim their lost glory. Murera completed his switch to the Harare giants from fellow Premiership football side Ngezi Platinum Stars last week in a move which he has described as “a dream come true’’. The 27-year-old is relishing the challenge that comes with playing for the country’s biggest club. And he is in line to play his first game for Tonderai Ndiraya’s team on Saturday when the Glamour Boys face-off against champions FC Platinum in a league tie away at Mandava. “I am at a club that I have always dreamt of playing for one day,” said Murera. “Growing up in the streets of Mbare, every boy was talking of one day playing for either Dynamos or CAPS United depending on who they supported. “I supported DeMbare since I was young and finding myself at a club that I so dearly love can’t be rivalled by any other feeling. “I am feeling blessed yet challenged to perform to the best of my abilities. “This is a team that has a rich history of success, a team that has a reputation of producing legends and achieving great things. “As a player I am challenged to play my heart out, help the team restore the glamour days and win titles.” Murera, who came close to joining Dynamos early last year, found himself playing in defence in eight games for his ex-club Ngezi Platinum Stars last year. Although he has always played as a midfielder, including in the three years he played under Ndiraya in Mhondoro, Murera had to be used as a make-shift defender last year. Despite that he had never played in that role before, Murera showed a lot of industry and artistry as Ngezi reached the final of the Chibuku Super Cup. And Murera will this Saturday face the team which beat Ngezi to the Chibuku Super Cup crown — FC Platinum — this time in DeMbare colours. “Of course, I used to play as a defender in the past eight or so games at Ngezi Platinum but I am naturally a midfielder. “I have played in midfield either taking offensive or defensive roles. “I was playing in defence in the past games and I really enjoyed those roles but at Dynamos I am back in midfield where I enjoy my game the most. “Facing FC Platinum in a league match is something I know is not easy at all. “I have played several battles against them and they are a good team. “But football is about competition, we are ready to compete. “I have fresh memories of Mandava Stadium after we lost in the Chibuku Super Cup when I was still with Ngezi Platinum. “That is something which is motivating me ahead of this league match on Saturday. “I feel at home being at Dynamos because I received a good welcome and I’m feeling as if I’ve been there for a while. The players, technical team and the supporters gave me a good reception when I arrived at the club. My goals are to bring back the glory days by winning silverware with the club. “I mean it was always my dream to one day play for Dynamos. This is the team that I supported during my childhood and it also got their roots from where I come from — Mbare,” Murera said.