The Herald YAOUNDE. — Senegal’s experience of playing in the last African Cup of Nations final will be a “good asset” for them in Sunday’s title decider, said forward Sadio Mane. Senegal, who beat Burkina Faso 3-1 on Wednesday night to reach the final, have yet to win the continental title but came close in Cairo in 2019. “Experience is a good asset,” said Mane, who scored Senegal’s third goal on Wednesday night. “I think that has always been the case since the start of this tournament. We suffered so much with a lot of Covid cases and several injuries too. “We had a very difficult time but with our experience we kept calm until we recovered the whole group. “We played a final last time, so we have experience and we will try to win this trophy.” Senegal were also runners-up in 2002, the year they went to the World Cup in Japan and South Korea and beat holders France in the opening game and became just the second African country to reach the quarterfinals. The comparisons between that generation and the current side have increased as Senegal progressed through the tournament. “There are a lot of leaders in this team because we have a lot of great players and a lot of mature players. Everyone is making a contribution so that the team can move forward,” added Mane. Mane hailed his Senegal teammates after they beat Burkina Faso to reach their second consecutive African Cup of Nations final. “It shows you the momentum we have. We knew it was not going to be at all easy to get to two straight AFCON finals, but the most important for us now is to go all the way and win it, whoever we come up against,” Mane said after scoring one goal and making another in the semi-final. Abdou Diallo put Senegal ahead 20 minutes from time at the Ahmadou Ahidjo Stadium in Cameroon’s capital, before Mane set up the second goal for Idrissa Gana Gueye. He then netted the late third himself after Blati Toure had pulled a goal back for Burkina Faso. “We were up against a really good Burkina side who caused us a lot of problems,” the Liverpool star added. “We expected a tough game and it was but we stayed calm and created lots of chances. I think we deserved to win tonight.” Mane, who now has three goals at the tournament, could not keep the smile off his face as he looked forward to the chance to win the trophy. “I think you can see on my face how happy I am which is completely normal. I am really proud personally and very happy for myself, my teammates and the country.” Africa’s top-ranked national team, Senegal lost to Algeria in the 2019 final in Egypt. They will play either the hosts Cameroon or Egypt in Sunday’s final at the Olembe Stadium. Those sides are the most successful nations in AFCON history with 12 titles between them, while Senegal have still never won the continental crown. Asked who he preferred to face in the decider, Mane added: “We have no preference.” The second semi-final between hosts Cameroon and Egypt was played late last night. — AFP.