The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter MIGHTY Warriors skipper Emmaculate Msipa is bullish that the senior national women’s football team that is currently in camp will qualify for this year’s Africa Women Cup of Nations finals. Zimbabwe are set to host Botswana on February 18 in the last qualifying round of the women’s version of the Africa Cup of Nations at the National Sports Stadium. They then travel to Francistown for the reverse tie on February 23. The winner between these two teams qualify for the Africa Women Cup of Nations that will be staged in Morocco in July. The four teams that reach the semi-finals in Morocco, automatically qualify for the 2023 FIFA Women World Cup finals. Speaking from her base in Turkey, Msipa, who is set to join her teammates in a week’s time, believes the team has the strength and capacity to overpower Botswana. The national women’s team has received huge support from the Government through the Sports Commission. The Sports Commission have secured an upmarket hotel for the team. And for the first time, four foreign-based players that are plying their trade outside the country will be flown in for the match. This is usually done for the men’s team, the Warriors. But the Sports Commission are showing the way after condemning the suspended ZIFA board for perpetuating the inequality between the Warriors and the Mighty Warriors. The quartet of Msipa, Israel-based forward Rudo Neshamba, striker Berita Kabwe, who is playing in the Nigerian top-flight league, as well as Danai Bhobho, who plays for Tanzanian women’s football champions Simba SC, are expected to join the rest of their team-mates in camp on February 14. Msipa, who has settled in Turkey following her move late last year, is confident of another dance with the continental showpiece. “I am glad that the team is in camp preparing for the last qualifying round. “Our chances are high to beat Botswana and qualify for AWCON, though the players were off season but I believe in the girls, I trust them. Last year against all the odds, we managed to beat Botswana at the COSAFA Championships. “The players showed passion in that game and showed that they are real soldiers that have the team at heart,” said Msipa. The former Black Rhinos Queens midfielder reckons that Botswana are a strong side that can cause an upset like what Zambia did in 2018. The Mighty Warriors were denied a place at the Ghana finals in 2018 when they were beaten by She-Chipolopolo. “Yes, Botswana is not an easy team, they are a tough team but we are going to give it our best. We qualified in 2016, and 2018 we were beaten by Zambia and failed to qualify. It was heartbreaking but it is part of football, and obviously there are some lessons that we learnt from that defeat. “So this year, it is our year to qualify again. I will keep on encouraging and motivating my team mates so that they work hard during the training camp, and so that they do extra work so that we qualify for AWCON. “We all know that at AWCON there is a chance to book a ticket to the World Cup, which is every player’s dream. “There is no room for complacency because we beat them last year but at the same time we are not afraid of them. I am sure they are also giving us a bit of respect as they know what we are capable of doing,” said Msipa. Zimbabwe last participated at the women’s finals in 2016 in Cameroon. Zimbabwe reached the semi-finals of the tournament, on the Mighty Warriors debut appearance in 2000.