The Herald Education Correspondent We are expected to make the learner a future responsible citizen, who must be spiritually, emotionally and physically well. It’s not just about maths, we are dealing with a human person in totality. As schools opened on February 7, most pupils celebrated waving goodbye to their parents and guardians whether boring, abusive or loving. They will spend better of their days at school. School is a place for children where they are comfortable and where they spend most of their time. Schools are also central places known to everyone. They should serve as a site for children’s services. The sad part is that being a learner comes with a lot of burdens that most of the vulnerable children have failed to surpass. These challenges range from physical, emotional, sexual abuse, hunger, transport challenges, resources among a plethora of difficulties. They all start from being at home where at times some parents and guardians are abusive. It might be a case of humble beginnings that also affect the school-going children. But one thing that helps deal with such burdens is meeting different characters and friends. Sharing is caring and teachers are the most ideal people to deal with such problems. Childhood is arguably the most vulnerable period of human life. Children are highly dependent on others to satisfy their basic needs, and this makes them particularly vulnerable. This is, of course, true for other stages of life as well. The situation of children seems to be categorically different, in so far as they do not start, as elderly people normally do, from a position in which they are autonomous, i.e. entitled to make their own decisions about their course of life. Children are dependent on decisions that others make for them right from the start. This seems to be the most salient source of children’s vulnerability. A more influential line of criticism holds that generally considering children as vulnerable is too vague to account for more specific aspects of children’s vulnerability. The debate on vulnerability is very much coined by the idea that there are situational vulnerabilities that are brought about by specific contextual features, including backgrounds. A growing number of children and adolescents around the world are subjected to violence, exploitation and other forms of abuse. These harms persist despite the proliferation of international norms and structures designed to protect children and promote their well-being. In many cases global transformations exacerbate rather than reduce the risks of abuse and increase the protection challenges these risks give rise to. Though each category of child protection deficit has its own characteristics and its attendant normative framework, they all share common and definable elements. Does the school have a role to play in tackling the social issues present in the lives of vulnerable children? Policy and practice across the globe over the past five to 10 years have increasingly suggested that the answer to this is “yes.” In light of this concern, schools are receiving greater attention as potential sites to remedy this perceived decline in family and community-based support. However, schools in rural and township areas face the dual burden of fewer resources and closer proximity to the country’s social problems. As such, many practitioners and policymakers have made great efforts to develop schools’ unique capability to serve as hubs for children’s services. In 1999, the South African minister of education said that: The crisis in primary and secondary schools must be dealt with by ensuring that schools become the centres of community life. Schools, even well-resourced ones, struggle to achieve a perfect balance between their core mandate and social service provision. In poor schools, educators face the challenge of being pressured to assist every vulnerable child, even though resources for the primary function of the school are scarce. Parents and other family members are critical to a child’s safety net. However, schools face particular difficulties maintaining relationships with the parents of children from informal settlements. Others found that schools could serve a greater community function by serving family members of the students, thus functioning as an agent of change in the greater realm of a child’s social life. Teachers mostly deal with different types of abuse which are equally distinct; including sexual abuse as the most prominent, followed by physical and emotional abuse, and neglect. Let the learners enjoy school! Education Correspondent We are expected to make the learner a future responsible citizen, who must be spiritually, emotionally and physically well. It’s not just about maths, we are dealing with a human person in totality. As schools opened on February 7, most pupils celebrated waving goodbye to their parents and guardians whether boring, abusive or loving. They will spend better of their days at school. School is a place for children where they are comfortable and where they spend most of their time. Schools are also central places known to everyone. They should serve as a site for children’s services. The sad part is that being a learner comes with a lot of burdens that most of the vulnerable children have failed to surpass. These challenges range from physical, emotional, sexual abuse, hunger, transport challenges, resources among a plethora of difficulties. They all start from being at home where at times some parents and guardians are abusive. It might be a case of humble beginnings that also affect the school-going children. But one thing that helps deal with such burdens is meeting different characters and friends. Sharing is caring and teachers are the most ideal people to deal with such problems. Childhood is arguably the most vulnerable period of human life. Children are highly dependent on others to satisfy their basic needs, and this makes them particularly vulnerable. This is, of course, true for other stages of life as well. The situation of children seems to be categorically different, in so far as they do not start, as elderly people normally do, from a position in which they are autonomous, i.e. entitled to make their own decisions about their course of life. Children are dependent on decisions that others make for them right from the start. This seems to be the most salient source of children’s vulnerability. A more influential line of criticism holds that generally considering children as vulnerable is too vague to account for more specific aspects of children’s vulnerability. The debate on vulnerability is very much coined by the idea that there are situational vulnerabilities that are brought about by specific contextual features, including backgrounds. A growing number of children and adolescents around the world are subjected to violence, exploitation and other forms of abuse. These harms persist despite the proliferation of international norms and structures designed to protect children and promote their well-being. In many cases global transformations exacerbate rather than reduce the risks of abuse and increase the protection challenges these risks give rise to. Though each category of child protection deficit has its own characteristics and its attendant normative framework, they all share common and definable elements. Does the school have a role to play in tackling the social issues present in the lives of vulnerable children? Policy and practice across the globe over the past five to 10 years have increasingly suggested that the answer to this is “yes.” In light of this concern, schools are receiving greater attention as potential sites to remedy this perceived decline in family and community-based support. However, schools in rural and township areas face the dual burden of fewer resources and closer proximity to the country’s social problems. As such, many practitioners and policymakers have made great efforts to develop schools’ unique capability to serve as hubs for children’s services. In 1999, the South African minister of education said that: The crisis in primary and secondary schools must be dealt with by ensuring that schools become the centres of community life. Schools, even well-resourced ones, struggle to achieve a perfect balance between their core mandate and social service provision. In poor schools, educators face the challenge of being pressured to assist every vulnerable child, even though resources for the primary function of the school are scarce. Parents and other family members are critical to a child’s safety net. However, schools face particular difficulties maintaining relationships with the parents of children from informal settlements. Others found that schools could serve a greater community function by serving family members of the students, thus functioning as an agent of change in the greater realm of a child’s social life. Teachers mostly deal with different types of abuse which are equally distinct; including sexual abuse as the most prominent, followed by physical and emotional abuse, and neglect. Let the learners enjoy school!