The Herald Crime Reporter One of the suspected armed robbers in the three-man gang that recently robbed 66 passengers of R167 050 and $7 367 aboard a cross border MBT bus travelling to South Africa along the Harare-Masvingo Highway has been arrested after committing another serious crime in Beitbridge last Wednesday. The suspect is part of a gang arrested in Beitbridge on attempted murder charges arising from another armed robbery that occurred in Zezani. They are Brighton Marange (30) and his two accomplices, Devine Mulaudzi (20) and Ronald Madovoyo (19). The three are alleged to be the gang that raided a family in Beitbridge where they shot and injured two people during the robbery before fleeing. They were arrested in follow-up investigations. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi said the three were armed with knobkerries and a pistol and allegedly attacked a family in a robbery attempt and shot two of the family members before fleeing the scene after one of the victims charged towards them. A Cpvena Zastava pistol and a black hunter’s torch were recovered from the suspects’ Honda Fit. “One of the suspects is being linked to a robbery case in which a South African bound MBT bus was robbed at the 60km peg along Masvingo- Beitbridge Road recently,” he said. Some 66 passengers aboard a cross border MBT bus to South Africa were recently robbed of R167 050 and $7 367 after three armed robbers who had pretended to be genuine passengers, drew out pistols and started shooting at passengers and at the roof of the bus while ordering the bus driver to stop. The incident occurred along the Harare-Masvingo Highway near Mvuma around 11pm. The bus driver, Mr Lazarus Mungadzi (46) and three passengers were injured. One woman passenger was shot on the chest and was in a critical condition. Meanwhile, police are investigating cases of unlawful entry into premises and theft which occurred on Wednesday, where an unknown suspect broke into a shop along Jason Moyo Street in central Bulawayo and stole 21 laptops valued at US$28 000. Anyone with information which may lead to the arrest of the suspects and recovery of the stolen property to contact any nearest police. Last week police in Lupane also recovered a Honda Fit stolen on Monday during an armed robbery at Siesta compound, Matobo, where six robbers attacked the car owner and stole a wallet containing US$180 and the vehicle. The vehicle was dumped in the bush near Robert Block with the battery, seat covers and a jack missing. Investigations to account for the robbers are in progress. The ZRP is also investigating a robbery at St Joseph Business Centre in Kezi on Monday at around 3am, where six robbers using a Honda Fit and armed with machetes, axes and knives, attacked three people living at a shop and threatened them with death while demanding cash. The robbers stole R4 000, two cellphones and a pair of sneakers from the house before proceeding to the shop where they stole R2 000 cash, clothing and satchels. They then loaded the loot into the Toyota D4D single cab belonging to robbed household and drove away. The stolen vehicle was recovered dumped near Brunapeg filling station while the Honda Fit was recovered dumped in Mphoengs area.