The Herald Prosper Dembedza Herald Correspondent A Harare woman alleges she is living in fear after one of the parties in a case in which she is a witness came at her house, peeped through the pre-cast wall, and started taking pictures. Vanessa Evershed who has since reported the matter to the police under case number CR93/02/22, is alleging that one of the parties John Tayler intruded her premises. She states that sometime in June last year she received a request from Kantor & Immerman to be a witness in the Arbitration between John Tayler and Yit Tekie. She further said that at first she did not want to get involved in the matter and would not testify, but  would only provide her logs and electronic communications confirming the delivery of a document Tayler denied receiving. “I got feedback from Mr Tekie letting me know that it was my duty to testify and that I would be subpoenaed to do so should I refuse. ‘‘After some consultation I made the considered decision to be a witness,” she said. She alleges that 10 days after her testimony, and while the arbitration remains sub judice, certain events took place that were intended to intimidate, punish or influence her for being a witness. “ On February 7, at 8am, I noticed a man on a horse looking over my pre-cast wass, and taking photographs of my home. I was scared and I quickly called a few friends for help,” she alleges. She said the  first to arrive was her friend’s husband and her employer Tekie. “I heard Mr Tekie arriving and the horse taking off at which time I opened the gate. ‘‘Mr Tekie drove in and told me to get into his vehicle, I did so in a shaken state and he pointed out that the rider was Tayler and went to find him in the direction he suspected he had gone.” She said they caught up with Tayler on Cosham Road and blocked his way. She added that Tekie asked Tayler to stop running away from a crime scene saying they should go to Borrowdale police station to have his snooping and intrusion explained. Evershed claims Tekie stopped intercepting Tayler just before Harare Drive citing traffic would be dangerous for horse and rider. He then proceeded to Borrowdale police station to report the incident. “Tayler lives in Borrowdale Brooke, and he rode 12kms on horseback to my home to take photographs. ‘‘This act was very intimidating. I was filled with fear and felt violated,” alleges Evershed. She said her family’s security and safety has been threatened, her  anxiety heightened, and their living arrangements disrupted by the actions of Tayler She said Tayler first denied going to the home, then admitted to the police that he came to her house  to verify her address after  they found hoof marks outside her yard. Efforts to hear Tayler’s side of the story were fruitless but it has been established that he has since approached the courts accusing Evershed and Tekie of trying to kill him after alleging that they attacked him while riding his horse in Evershed’s neighbourhood.