The Herald RISING high jump star Kudakwashe Chadenga of Zimbabwe has been recognised for his record-breaking performances for the Texas-based South Plains College after being named the National Junior College Athletic Association (NJCAA) Male Athlete of the Week in the United States. National Athlete of the Week is an award selected and presented by the USTFCCCA Communications Staff at the beginning of each week to eight collegiate track and field athletes, when applicable (male and female for each of the three NCAA divisions and the NJCAA). The award seeks to highlight not only the very best times, marks and scores on a week-to-week basis, but also performances that were significant on the national landscape and/or the latest in a series of strong outings. Chadenga had a week to remember after breaking his own week-long Zimbabwe high jump record with a best jump of 2.22m at the Texas Tech Shoot-out at the Texas Tech Sports Performance Centre. A week earlier Chadenga, who is still a freshman had broken the long-standing national mark of 2.20m which had been standing since January 2000. In addition to breaking Zimbabwe record, Chadenga also shattered several records for his college South Plains, with his latest jump which is the #4 all-time mark in NJCAA history. “Kudakwashe Chadenga has been on a serious jumping tear in February. Having never cleared 7-feet (2.14m) before this month, he has now done it five times in two meets. His latest effort of 2.22m (7-3¼) at the Texas Tech Shoot-out moved him up to a tie for No. 4 all-time in NJCAA history. It is also the highest jump by a JUCO athlete since 2012 and ties him for No. 5 among all collegians this year,” said the USTFCCCA in a statement on their official website. “A week earlier, Chadenga appeared at the Charlie Thomas Invitational, with his best that day of 2.20m (7-2½) making him then tied for No 6 on the all-time NJCAA list. He is the ninth male athlete from South Plains to be named National Athlete of the Week in indoor track & field.” — Zim Sport Live