The Herald MOSCOW. — Russia’s delegation has arrived in Belarus for talks with the Ukrainian side, Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov said yesterday. “In line with the agreement, the Russian delegation consisting of representatives of the Foreign Ministry, the Defence Ministry and other agencies, including the presidential administration, has arrived in Belarus for talks with the Ukrainians,” Peskov said. “We will be ready to start these talks in Gomel,” he stated. The Belarusian Foreign Ministry confirmed the arrival of the Russian delegation in Gomel for talks with Ukraine, noting that Minsk has made the necessary arrangements. “Yes, we confirm this information. The Belarusian side has already prepared everything necessary for talks, it is ensuring in full the solution of all protocol, logistic and other issues,” Belarusian Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Anatoly Glaz said. Russia launched its special military operation aimed at demilitarisation and denazification of Ukraine on February 24. On Friday, the troop movement was suspended amid expectation of possible talks with Kiev, but resumed on Saturday as Ukraine refused to participate. Earlier, the office of Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky said he might discuss Ukraine’s neutral status as well as the package of guarantees for its security. Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko announced on Saturday that Minsk was ready to provide a venue for holding the negotiations. Late on Saturday, Zelensky said the proposal to arrange talks had been put forward by the presidents of Turkey and Azerbaijan, Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Ilham Aliyev. Meanwhile, Deputy Chairman of the Russian Security Council Dmitry Medvedev said that the current sanctions against Russia could be a reason to review relations with all states that have imposed them. Medvedev said this was a reason to end all dialogue with the West on strategic stability, and vowed that the sanctions wouldn’t change Moscow’s decision to conduct the ongoing military operation and protect Donbass. He also noted that Russia may respond symmetrically to measures taken against Russian citizens and companies abroad, namely by seizing funds of foreigners and foreign companies in Russia. Additionally, Russian aviation authorities said there would be a “mirror response” to the measures currently carried out by countries choosing to ban flights for Russian aircraft. Moscow vowed to close its airspace in retaliation. — TASS/Xinhua.