The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter CAPS UNITED captain Phenias Bamusi says the Green Machine are still work in progress but they are now in good stead to start winning matches ahead of their Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match against Manica Diamonds at Sakubva tomorrow. Makepekepe have been going through hard times after being hit by a massive player exodus following quarrels over salary and bonus payments. The players are still owed up to two months in salary arrears but coach Lloyd Chitembwe has been able to assemble a solid team of experienced players in the ongoing player transfer period. Makepekepe have drawn all their four opening games in the league with the giants only able to score once in those encounters. It is understandable given the team have spent most of their time this year in quarrels but two solid weeks for the squad training together should mean they can at least start posting positive results, according to Bamusi. “We have been preparing for the match against Manica Diamonds after drawing our fourth game this season against Ngezi Platinum Stars on Monday. “It was a disappointing draw against Ngezi Platinum and we need to pick maximum points against Manica Diamonds on Sunday (tomorrow),” said Bamusi. “But, we are not under pressure, our team is still work in progress and we will get to find ourselves as we go. “We are very much in the right direction as a team. We are improving with each game and we are not reading much into the fact that Manica Diamonds are the log leaders when we play them.” Bamusi said Manica Diamonds ought to be respected given they are on top of the log, having collected nine points from four outings. “We respect Manica Diamonds a lot given they are at the summit of the log standings but we are not going to over-respect them. We are CAPS United, we are a big brand, our team is expected to win games and we are ready to meet those expectations. “We are expected to deliver, week in, week out.  With the right mentality, we will be doing exactly that. I think we have been doing so well but it is high time we also start picking the maximum points. “We stand a very good chance against Manica Diamonds. We have started the marathon slowly, on a low note but we are work in progress. We now have a very competitive squad, a squad with good experience and quality.” After signing some of Bamusi’s former teammates at Harare City, including William Manondo, and adding several experienced players, Bamusi said Makepekepe could as well be the team to beat this season. “We have some of the best players in the local league and we know with the right attitude, we will go out there and win this game and more. “It is still early days into the season and as CAPS United, we always have a chance in each game, we just have to take each game as it comes. We are CAPS United and we always have to play top-class football and win matches. Manica Diamonds are playing good football and they are not at the top of the table by chance. They have good players in their ranks and we have to be at our best on Sunday (tomorrow) if we are to get a positive result.” The speedster returns to the stadium where he provided an assist to the quickest goal scored so far this season when Makepekepe played 1-1 draw at Sakubva two weeks ago. Bamusi provided the cut-back from the by-line that was tapped in by Manondo in the opening minute to give the Green Machine the lead against the army team.