The Herald Talent Gore For many people making their first million usually happens in their 30s if not beyond. However the same cannot be said for South African millionaire Sashin Govender who made his first seven figures at the age of 21. Govender became one of the youngest millionaires in Africa, 2020 he was named as one of the entrepreneurs who are doing well by Forbes Magazine. Govender was first introduced to personal development by his father at the age of eight, he entered into the business world at the age of 18, made his first 6 figures at 19 and his first seven figures at 21years and first eight figures 24 years. Businessman, motivational speaker, philanthropist, sales and life coach, was in Zimbabwe on a two-day tour where he was teaching and inspiring people to turn their life around for the better. The Herald on Saturday Lifestyle caught up with Govender when he was in the country as he narrated how he got to be a millionaire at just 21. Known as The Millionaire Student (T MS), Govender who is the founder of TMS Holdings which owns more than twenty entities could be labelled an overnight success in the public’s eyes due to his rise to fame. “Mine was a difficult upbringing, it was a work hard for what you want and nothing will be given to you,” Govender said. “I cannot remember a day my parents actually gave me a shopping spree, bank account or anything along. “As a family we were afforded the basics but anything beyond that you would afford it yourself.” The millionaire bought the house of the former president of Mozambique, Samora Machel at the age of 24. Nowadays you are praised in public for what you do in private but Sashin has been mastering his craft for the past eighteen years since he was eight years old. Though social media and the Internet now play an integral part in his business, it’s not what made him, he thanks his self-taught education for his success after years of refining his self-development and coaching skills all with the end goal of being able to teach others. “Along the way, I have had to spend time as a mentee under Tony Robbins and in turn was able to work with celebrities like AKON, Jordan Belfort and Soulja Boy,” he said. “This definitely helped me to see things differently and get me where I am today as a person.” “I don’t feel like I have made it, if you are money driven then you are always chasing the next money target,” he said. “For me it’s more of how many people I have impacted in Zimbabwe whilst I am here, my definition of wealth is not about how much money a person but rather how many people a person has impacted. “During my stay in Zimbabwe I plan on meeting business people and actually consider doing business in Zimbabwe and out of all the countries that I have travelled to, I love Zimbabwe the most. “The people, the culture and the environment it is just beautiful.” “This is the second time that I am in Zimbabwe, when I come to Zimbabwe for my seminar I usually do them for free because I love this country and I have soft spot for it,” Govender said. “Having these tours help Africans, to think outside the box and not wait for the first world countries It is also purely based on the fact that I feel like the first world countries always get stuff before us. I am just trying to help people think outside the box.” Over the years, I have received so many awards for being an entrepreneur and motivational speaker. Govender held speaking engagements where he was imparting knowledge from his own experiences and business endeavors to fellow up-and-coming entrepreneurs. He spoke on how he became a power source at the age of eight. “After my parents separated, I redirected my anger and emotions inflicted by their separation into an intense focus, reading self-help books, attending self-improvement seminars and more,” he said. “Even at a young age, I saw an opportunity to turn a negative, life-altering moment into a positive, constructive one that would profoundly dictate the rest of my life.” Govender has in the past hosted international artists like Akon and Rick Ross on my show. Sashin has become one of the most requested and highly paid inspirational speakers due to his ability to position people to stay inspired and take action simultaneously; he also bridges the gap between generations. The brand “Win with Sashin and The Millionaire Student” has become a household name in over 90+ countries and six continents. For his work, he was knighted by the Royal Order of Constantine in Beverly Hills, Los Angeles, one of the oldest orders of knighthood in the world, for excellence in the profession and exemplary contribution to society through innovation and philanthropy. Being one of the youngest millionaire in Africa, Govender said it was an incredible feeling. “It is incredible but would rather be celebrated for success stories, while I am in Zimbabwe on this trip I want to change people’s lives, I want to help people such that they can do better than me,” he said. Sashin said he does a lot of philanthropy in Africa and beyond but does not believe that it should be public. “We do so much of charity work privately and I believe philanthropy is not just giving money, doing things publicly, I believe it is impacting people individually because if I can impact one person they have the ability to impact their surroundings,” Govender said. “I have big plans for Zimbabwe and I will be visiting this country regularly for business and other tours, after this tour here I am going to Zambia for a two day tour. “I have been in 11 countries in the past 30 days doing seminars, business meetings etc I hardly have time to rest.”