The Herald LONDON. — Liverpool dealt Leeds United a harsh lesson on Wednesday night as they thumped them 6-0 to move within three points of Manchester City in the English Premiership football title race. The English Premier League title race is well and truly back on after City slipped up at home to Tottenham, and Liverpool have taken full advantage to move within touching distance. It was an exceptional display by Jurgen Klopp’s side, as Mohamed Salah and Sadio Mane both netted twice, and centre-back pairing Joel Matip and Virgil van Dijk also got in on the act. Liverpool looked as lethal as ever, and their philosophy this season puts City to shame, as the Reds set their sights on a second English Premier League title. It was the complete performance from Liverpool on Wednesday as from Alisson in goal, to Salah in attack, everyone was on top form as Leeds were humiliated away from home. Liverpool led 3-0 at half-time, and with a Carabao Cup final against Chelsea on Sunday, it was expected that Klopp would look to bring off both Salah and Mane early into the second half, but they lasted the full 90. As did full-backs Andy Robertson and Trent Alexander-Arnold, who were rested for their last match against Norwich, but Klopp continued his ruthless, no-nonsense approach to each individual game by leaving them out there. Liverpool may not be top of the league, but they are dominating tally’s elsewhere, as the top three English Premier League goalscorers and assist makers are all members of Klopp’s side. City have been hailed for their threat going forward, but Liverpool are putting them to shame in that department, as Salah, Diogo Jota and Mane top the league’s scoring charts, with the Egyptian well out in front with 19. Salah is also joint with Alexander-Arnold in assists too (10), and Robertson’s contribution against Leeds moved him up to nine for the season, placing him in third position. Liverpool are certainly on the ascendancy, with City worryingly looking over their shoulder when many had already written off the league, but if the Reds continue at the trajectory they’re at, it’s hard to see them not taking top spot. Klopp has successfully achieved his short-term goal of winning Liverpool’s game in hand, and with the league leaders just three points ahead of the Reds, it adds a whole new dimension to when the sides meet at the Etihad in April. — The Mirror 