The Herald LONDON. — The race for the top four in the English Premier League football in 2021/22 is as exciting and wide open as it has ever been. With Manchester City, Liverpool and Chelsea already looking as though they have secured the top three spots, only fourth place remains up for grabs ahead of the rest of the season. And five teams are currently battling it out to grab that final spot for Champions League football next season, in a season where no one has been consistent enough to make it their own. Manchester United, West Ham United, Arsenal, Wolverhampton Wanderers and Tottenham Hotspur are the clubs in question, and despite there being a seven point gap between the Red Devils and Spurs, there are crucial games in hand to factor in. Here is all you need to know about the next fixtures for each of the five clubs ahead of the next international break at the end of March. MANCHESTER UNITED Position: 4th Games played: 25 Points: 43 Next five games: February 20 – Leeds (A), February 26 – Watford (H), March 6 – Manchester City (A), March 12 – Spurs (H), March 20 – Liverpool (A) Manchester United climbed back into the top four after beating Brighton 2-0 on Tuesday night in what was a crucial victory in their game-in-hand and they now occupy a two-point lead over fifth-placed West Ham. The Red Devils face a tough game away to rivals Leeds next, before a home tie against relegation battling Watford, but they will be expected to pick up a maximum points haul from these two games. However, Ralf Rangnick’s side then face daunting away trips to Manchester City and Liverpool in two of their next three, either side of a home fixture against Spurs, and it is hard to see them picking up three positive results here. WEST HAM Position: 5th Games played: 25 Points: 41 Next five games: February 19 – Newcastle (H), February 27 – Wolves (H), March 5 – Liverpool (A), March 13 – Aston Villa (H), March 20 – Spurs (A) West Ham have gone a step further this season by challenging for a top four spot and are very much in the mix, despite a drop in form of late which has yielded just two wins in their last five games. The Hammers are at home to Newcastle, Wolves and Aston Villa in three of their next five, where they are more than capable of picking up nine points, but between five and six is looking more likely. Liverpool should be too strong for them when they head there on March 5, but a London derby at Tottenham in their last game before the international break could be massive in terms of which team comes out on top in the race for fourth spot. ARSENAL Position: 6th Games played: 22 Points: 39 Next five games: February 19 – Brentford (H), February 24 – Wolves (H), March 6 – Watford (A), March 13 – Leicester (H), March 19 – Aston Villa (A) The Gunners may be four points behind Manchester United but they have three games in hand on them and have a favourable run of upcoming fixtures compared to their top four rivals. They should see off Brentford and Watford, and a positive result in the game in hand against Wolves on February 24 would be huge in order to put themselves in the driving seat for fourth place. Leicester City at home and Aston Villa away are no easy games either, but the Gunners will need to beat these kinds of teams if they are to make up any ground on those above them, and they’ve shown that they have more than enough quality to do so this season. WOLVES Position: 7th Games played: 23 Points: 37 Next six: February 20 – Leicester (H), February 24 – Arsenal (A), February 27 – West Ham (A), March 5 – Crystal Palace (H), March 12 – Everton (A), March 18 – Leeds (H) Wolves have very quietly gone about their business this season and flown under the radar of late to put themselves in contention for a top four finish, as they sit six points outside the final Champions League spot with two games in hand. Winning four of their last five makes them one of the more consistent sides in the top four and consecutive away games to rivals Arsenal and West Ham within three days of each other next week could make or break their chances. Their next game against Leicester at home will be a tough test, along with Everton away next month, but they should have enough to see off both Crystal Palace and Leeds at Molineux in must-win games. TOTTENHAM Position: 8th Games played: 22 Points: 36 Next six games: February 19 – Manchester City (A), February 23 – Burnley (A), February 26 – Leeds (A), March 7 – Everton (H), March 12 – Manchester United (A), March 20 – West Ham (H) Spurs have suffered three consecutive defeats and if it wasn’t for the fact they have three games in hand on Manchester United in fourth place, they would struggle to be included in the top four discussion. And their next six fixtures provide plenty of challenges, beginning with a trip to league leaders Manchester City this weekend, in a game they will be very lucky to get anything from going by their recent performances. Their game in hand with relegation threatened Burnley after that is crucial in picking up three points in order to gain some ground on those above, while a trip to Leeds also shows promise, but they will face real tests with Everton, Manchester United and West Ham after that. — The Mirror