The Herald BIRMINGHAM. – Marvelous Nakamba has spoken for the first time after his devastating knee injury back in December. The Aston Villa Zimbabwean midfielder — a shining star in Steven Gerrard’s first month as manager — damaged ligaments in the 1-0 defeat at Anfield. Nakamba was enjoying one of the best spells of his Aston Villa career when his progress was halted by a knee injury in December. The midfielder had started all of Gerrard’s first five games in charge of Villa, winning the club’s November Player of the Month award along the way. And in an interview with VillaTV, Nakamba discussed his injury, his frustrations at the timing of the setback and his positive approach to getting back on the pitch. Nakamba (28), who’s hoping to return to action before the end of the season, told VillaTV: “After the (Liverpool) game ended and, after we did some tests, that’s when our physios said, ‘Yeah, this needs some treatment!’ “It was not something that I could play again in the next match. It was my first time having surgery and the first time experiencing all of those things. “I’ve been continuing to speak with the medical team here who tell me how to make my leg stronger and to recover faster and quicker and so on. “Injuries are frustrating at any time, but I’d just won the player of the month for the club and I was getting more game time. Steven Gerrard and his new team came in and I’m grateful for the chance I got from them. I was enjoying the training and improving. “Unfortunately, I got the injury and now I have to work hard on coming back stronger.” Adding to his disappointment, the injury dashed the 28-year-old’s chance to represent Zimbabwe at the African Cup of Nations finals in Cameroon last month. Nakamba, of course, was forced to withdraw from the Zimbabwe squad for last month’s African Cup of Nations, adding: “The timing was very, very bad. There was the African Cup of Nations for my country, so it was very frustrating for me. “I had to support the guys that went there to do the best for the nation. It was out of my control.” Since making his professional debut in May 2014, Nakamba has rarely spent time in the treatment room and this the longest injury absence of his career. In addition to the physical side, being sidelined for a number of months can take a mental toll, but Nakamba has remained upbeat through it all. He said: “It’s my first big injury since I started playing professional football, so I’ve had to be strong. “But people around me have been encouraging me but I also knew in myself that these things can happen. I have to soldier on and focus on getting better, becoming stronger and stronger. “I’m working on being stronger mentally, physically, everything. I try to keep myself positive, you only live once. It could be worse, right? There are other people in worse situations. I keep myself positive and happy. “My team-mates have been there for me from the day I had my surgery, supporting and encouraging me. Some of them have been through these injuries. “It was more of a confidence thing for me, hearing my team-mates encouraging me, telling me not to worry and being with me. I also had the aim of supporting them when they’re playing. It’s one big family.” He added: “I try to keep myself positive, you only live once.” – Birmingham Live.