The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter CAPS United coach Lloyd Chitembwe has built a reputation in the local Premiership football using the so-called recycled players. In 2016, he ended the Green Machine’s 11-year wait for a league crown with some “old war-horses’’, including striker Leonard Tsipa who retired the following year. It is Chitembwe who also recalled 36-year-old Harare City striker Kuda Musharu to rejoin the club when he had been dropped after he (Chitembwe) was appointed at the helm of the municipal club in 2019. And Chitembwe’s line-up in their rescheduled match-day three encounter against Black Rhinos at Sakubva last weekend is proof he trusts the tried and tested players even those other clubs would have dumped because “age is no longer on their side”. Chitembwe has assembled his team from “old” players discarded by other clubs because of age this season. Rodwell Chinyengetere (34) was released by FC Platinum while Devon Chafa (32) was also shown the exit at Ngezi Platinum. The duo joined 34-year-old Dennis Dauda, skipper Phineas Bamusi (32), Ronald Chitiyo (30), William Manondo (31), Clive Augusto (28) and Lincoln Mangaira (28) in the first 11 that averaged 30,2 years in the match against Rhinos. “I don’t really read much into this age thing. “I am concerned about working with players who I feel can do the job for the team,” Chitembwe said. “At the end of the day, it is all about being able to compete under any circumstances. I don’t pay attention to age but to the player’s ability to play competitively on the pitch. “No matter if a player is considered old or young, as long as they play well, I take them and let them play for my team. I believe in players’ ability, their technical know-how and fighting spirit, those qualities which define a footballer. “Age is not much of a factor as long as players are able to apply what we teach them to do. That is what concerns me a lot. Even if a player is young and shows the ability then I will take him and even when he is in his mid or late-30s no problem. At the end of the day, what matters is how you are competing.” Easily the team with one of the most experienced cast of players, Makepekepe will be hoping to post their first victory this season when they play Ngezi Platinum Stars at the National Sports Stadium on Monday. The Green Machine have drawn all their three opening matches and matters weren’t helped by the bickering at the club for the past three months when players were demanding their dues. In fact, the team trained for only eight days before their match against Black Rhinos who had put in about seven weeks of preparations. But everything has been flowing smoothly at the team this week after the players received some of their money late last week. And Chitembwe is hoping that the prevailing situation will propel CAPS United to victory against Ngezi on Monday. “We are very happy, we didn’t have any problems this week and the team has been focusing on the game against Ngezi Platinum. “The players are responding well to training; I am working with top professionals who know what they are supposed to do. We will have to apply ourselves well against Ngezi Platinum who are a strong team. “We have played three games, but those are only three games and there are 31 more to go, so we know we will have to cover lost ground since it is still too early. “This is a difficult match against Ngezi but we are looking forward to a good performance by my club.” With a clean bill of health, Chitembwe said his team is not reading much into the seemingly instability at Ngezi Platinum who have suspended coach Rodwell Dhlakama. “We don’t look into what is happening at the other camp. We are a team that is looking to compete in the league and we know Ngezi Platinum are a good side.” Ngezi Platinum caretaker coach, Takesure Chiragwi, once worked under Chitembwe and the latter has described him as no novice who is knowledgeable in this field.