The Herald Grace Chingoma-Senior Sports Reporter AFTER a one-year sabbatical, Mighty Warriors forward Berita Kabwe is looking forward to playing for the senior national women’s football team again when Zimbabwe host Botswana on February 18 at the National Sports Stadium. The Mighty Warriors host the neighbours in the first leg of the last qualifying round of the Africa Women Cup of Nations. They travel to Francistown for the return leg on February 23. The winner between the two teams will book a place at the women’s version of the Africa Cup of Nations scheduled for Morocco in July. The four teams that reach the semi-finals in Morocco, automatically qualify for the 2023 FIFA Women World Cup finals. The Zimbabwe senior national team is currently in camp in Harare with 25 players training under the close attention of head coach Sithetheliwe “Kiwnji 15” Sibanda and her technical team. Four more players, skipper Emmaculate Msipa, Kabwe, Rudo Neshamba and Danai Bhobho, who ply their trade outside the country, are expected to join camp on Sunday. Speaking from her base in Nigeria, Kabwe, who turns out for Nigerian top-flight league champions ,Rivera Angels, said she was happy to play for the national team again after missing out on COSAFA Championships last year. Kabwe was loaned to the Nigerian champions last year in September by Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services team. She was set to take part in the inaugural CAF Women’s Champions League finals in Egypt that were played last year in November. However, Kabwe missed the historical tournament after she failed to secure clearance on time since the window had closed. She has since begun playing for her West African club and has played three competitive games since January. Her club is the leading team in the league’s first round. Although she is yet to score, Kabwe, who is sister to former Harare City and ZPC Kariba forward, Protasho Kabwe, has created some good assists. “I am enjoying my football here now that I am playing competitive league games. Last year, I was confined to friendly and practice matches but my papers are now in order. “I am itching to play for the Mighty Warriors again and help the team qualify for the Africa Women Cup of Nations. “I last played for the national team in 2020 when we went to COSAFA in South Africa. But I am glad that I am in good form and will do my best to try and help the team to qualify. “I was part of the team that went to the Nations Cup in Cameroon in 2016 but I did not feature in any game. I am looking forward to playing a part this time around and this starts with qualifying for the tournament,” said Kabwe. Zimbabwe last participated at the women’s finals in 2016 in Cameroon. Zimbabwe reached the semi-finals of the tournament on the Mighty Warriors’ debut appearance in 2000.