The Herald Ellina Mhlanga  Senior Sports Reporter AFTER the construction of an Olympafrica Centre in Epworth failed to take place due to illegal settlers occupying the land, there may be hope to revive the project in the future. The International Olympic Committee, through the Olympafrica Foundation, had initially pledged US$500 000 towards the establishing of the centre. However, they withdrew the funding due to the problems between the Epworth Local Board, who had offered land for the project, and some illegal settlers that occupied the site that was earmarked for the project. The settlers refused to move from the land to pave way for construction of the centre. The tensions meant ZOC could not meet the deadline they had agreed with the IOC, resulting in the withdrawal of the initial US$150 000, which had been handed to the National Olympic Committee, to start the groundwork. Harare Metropolitan Province Secretary for Provincial Affairs and Devolution, Tafadzwa Muguti, said they are aware of the developments and the intervention possible is to remove the settlers. He also said they need to support the Epworth Local Board as they follow due processes to evict the illegal settlers. “(I am) very much aware (of the Olympafrica Centre project). Once visited the place as I made a familiarisation tour of the province. It is not a dispute per se. It is just an administrative and legal move which is required to move the people out of the stadium land. “They were given alternative land to resettle because the board wanted to understand them but they sold the stands at Glenwood Extension and moved back to the stadium. “The only intervention possible is to remove the 180+ families from the site to pave way for the development. The Local Board is in the process of obtaining eviction orders. “The possible measure is to support the Local Authority and ensure they follow due processes to evict the families,” said Muguti. Muguti said the Epworth Local Board had made efforts to accommodate the illegal settlers as they tried to resolve the issue. “The local board was trying to understand them and found alternative land at Glenwood extension for relocation so that they could free the stadium for development. “The local authority went an extra mile and offered cabins for them to temporarily live in, but for speculative purposes, the people sold the stands and moved back to the stadium. Evicting them is the way to go. “The Board is in the process of obtaining eviction orders and that is where the delay (not reluctance) could be.” The Zimbabwe Olympic Committee president, Thabani Gonye, said they will explore opportunities that grow the Olympic movement in the country. But he noted that there were certain aspects that had to be considered. “In line with its current 2025 strategic plan, ZOC will always explore opportunities that advance the Olympic movement in Zimbabwe. One of the NOC’s four key performance areas is that of Olympism and Olympic Education. “Under this KPA, we have a strategic objective that speaks to us, introducing and implementing new Olympic Legacy Projects to enhance Olympism and OVEP. “Herein lies the opportunity to identify potentially viable Olympic legacy projects to develop. “The possible location(s) for these projects are not limited to Epworth but anywhere in Zimbabwe where ZOC can find willing partners for this noble community project. I am sure at the opportune time with land available an enabling environment and willing partners to see these kind of projects through, ZOC will consider applying for seed funding. “Having said that it, however, must not be lost that this project has to be considered in the 2022-2025 strategic priorities and that ZOC application would have to be considered along and compete with other NOC’s already in the queue pursuing these projects funding,” said Gonye. The move to build the Olympafrica Centre in Epworth was orchestrated by one of its most illustrious sons, Musekiwa Kumbula. The project has been in the pipeline for close to eight years now due to the impasse between the Epworth Local Board and the defiant illegal settlers.