The Herald Tadious Manyepo–Sports Reporter FOR more reasons than one, Kudakwashe “Take-Money” Chiwandire, who made history by becoming the first Zimbabwean to win a World Boxing Council title after defeating Zambia’s Catherine Phiri on Saturday night, was the underdog. Debuting in February 2018 and with only seven fights under her belt, Chiwandire was literally a novice coming up against the vastly experienced Zambian Air Force officer. The 26-year-old Zimbabwean had bitter memories in Zambia having lost in her last fight in that country against Barbra Banda. That there were only a handful of Zimbabweans rooting for her in a packed New Lusaka Government Complex didn’t help matters. But once she stepped into the ring, Chiwandire turned into a beast. She was as industrious as she was smart. For the entire 10-rounds, Chiwandire dominated her rival, throwing well-calculated punches with both conviction and accuracy. Her combinations were as confusing to her opponent as they were intimidating before a stunned Government Complex auditorium. In fact, in each round, Chiwandire looked like she would knock Phiri down but her punches lacked power and she had to be patient, posting points in the process. This is the highest point Chiwandire has ever reached in her marry-go-round sporting career which has seen her trying her hand in football, kick-boxing and karate. The mother of three will be hoping the victory will herald the start of a new era. Speaking to The Herald yesterday, the ecstatic Chiwandire said she wouldn’t afford to let the country down. “I can’t explain how I feel. I feel like crawling or even rolling from Zambia to Zimbabwe. I have that power to do so after posting this impressive victory. This was the game of my life. For me it was a matter of life and death. As I said earlier, it’s either I was bringing the belt home or I was dying in the ring and thank goodness, it’s the former,” said Chiwandire. “I give Glory and Honour to God for giving me the strength to stand and fight with Catherine (Phiri). “It was my wish to come here in Zambia and win because I knew I was carrying the whole nation’s pride so it was a must-win. I had to defend the country’s badge, I am glad I did. “I am happy, we conquered all because of the grace of God. “Everything went well, there were no difficulties in defeating my opponent.” Chiwandire is already looking forward to winning the next title. “There is no time to rest now, I want to go far, and I’m looking forward to that. “What I can say is I did well to finish all the rounds. I tried to knock her (Phiri) down but she resisted. She is strong but I outclassed her. “Our plan was to finish all the 10 rounds and I did it, but if we had gotten a chance to knock her down, I would have done that. And for me to reach the final round against Phiri it’s a job well done.” For Chiwandire’s father, Morris, Kuda’s victory represents a significant milestone in her life and career. “I was praying and her mother (Edina) was praying too. “We didn’t really have supper on Saturday. We were anxious and always praying ahead of the fight. God is good, she (Kuda) managed to win the bout,” he said. “Up until the fight ended (around 11pm), all her three children were still awake. We are over the moon and we hope her success will propel her to even greater heights.”