The Herald Carl Maswoswa (MSc Student In Financial Engineering, NUST)  Making it in life has become a selling point; living lavishly and driving fancy cars is the order of the day.  While it is welcomed by the society for celebrities, entrepreneurs, creatives, religious sect leaders and other successful people alike to tell their story — it is a source of vexation amongst the youths.  As one is given the podium to air their biographies on the centre stage; the process of how it came to be seems distanced from the thrust of their stories.  A joke is often made about motivational speakers how they entice the audience with the unrealistic notion that you can start a business with anything.  The microwave mentality that anything is instant, is it a way of moulding the young generation?  One in three teenagers fail to focus on their journey, the tribe of doers in the society has created a false reality that success is instant, letting the youth focus on the triviality; I will do anything to be celebrated.  A renowned celebrity in the sphere of socialites boasted how he had money, the society of youths wanted to relate to the process of his struggles and challenges — he couldn’t account for it.  A deviation from the status quo is drowning individuals into a state of unnecessary worry and desperation.  Isn’t it melancholic how on social media women have turned to nudity just for fame?  A toast to the likes.  Where is the social fabric that binds us as a society?  We are a generation of Tik Tokers where hype and trending is the centre piece of our success vocabulary.  The life we live these days is hard in entirety, studying and being focused seems like a waste of time.  It takes time to reward the hard-working citizens of the society.  Every youth wallows whether being alive is a matter of choice or inflicted upon.  Youth should be kept abreast in what life entails.  The saying — the grass is greener the other side is a false narrative — the grass is greener where you water it. Your mind-set should change in how you view life and the trajectory you ought to set for yourself.  A generation needs to rise to create a movement that encourages each other in the grand scheme of things.  Divulging the process of your journey will help someone there in dire need of hope and strength to take each day as it goes.  A question many always ask is where are we rushing to?  Even the word in the bible clearly laid out a foundation in timing (in Ecclesiastes) — there is a time for everything under the sun; time to be born, time to die, time to plant, time to uproot, time to heal, time to weep, time to laugh; pressuring yourself to attain something in the smallest fraction of time possible will not cut it.  Everyone has a different race to run, some arrive early and some late.  It shouldn’t be a point of concern to you — why is my journey taking too long while others have arrived at their destination?  Impatience and being temperamental is a tragedy you should avoid.  God has purposed you for a different thing.  Your life will be an inspiration amongst the unbelievers that you can rise from the dust without nothing attached to your name to rise to be a great source of belief and hope.  Challenges are there to break and mould you, never to kill you.  While you wait as a youth, immerse yourself in preparation for things to come.  You can’t give what you don’t have — be focused, study and inspire your peers, start projects, enjoy the moment because all you have is this moment.  If you allow your hands to cling to fear, worry, disappointment, disbelief you will not be able to cling to the promises and prophecies about your life.  Let go and renew your mind-set.