The Herald Nyasha Mabwe Youth Interactive Writer Twenty-five year old Bulawayo FC player Billy Veremu is aiming for the stars after he recently scooped the best player award at his club. The talented young man who was on a one year loan deal at Bulawayo FC from Ngezi Platinum, is now a permanent player for the club and has now set his sights on bigger awards and accolades in local football. “I came to Bulawayo FC on a one year loan deal and I told myself that as a striker I am here to score goals and help my team to win as many games and trophies as possible,” said Billy. “I am happy that I have been able to do just that and this award is testimony of that. I however want to give credit to my teammates because we have been playing well as a good team and I hope that will continue to do so going forward.” But who is Veremu? He was born and raised in a family of four, two boys and two girls, in the high density suburb of Budiriro 5B. His passion for football was nurtured from a very young age as his father and siblings all loved soccer. He started playing football at Budiriro No 5 Primary School. “There was an academy that used our school grounds. It was called Arsenal FC and the coach was Jonathan Chimhoga,” he said. “I immediately joined the academy and from then I started featuring in the school’s first team. Mr Chimhoga gave me the nickname ‘Osama’ because of my exploits on the field of play. “This name gained popularity in my neighbourhood and this motivated me to work harder than before.” After completing his primary school he proceeded to Mhuriimwe Secondary School in Mufakose where he won several trophies and awards as the top goal scorer. “I then had a short stint at Lisbon Academy before I moved to Caps united juniors,” said Veremu. “The journey to get to where I am right now has not been easy. There were some moments where I did not have money for transport to go for training and I kept reminding myself that my future isn’t determined by any predicaments but where I come from and this gave me the resolve not to quit. “Just because one was born and raised in the ghetto doesn’t mean one cannot make it in life or live their dreams. One just has to be strong and determined.” In 2016 Veremu signed his first professional contract with Division 1 side, Gunners that was being coached by Darlington Dodo. The following year he joined Division 2 side Big five FC, which was under Joseph Takaringofa. “I played for them for one season and was one of the top 3 goal scorer in that league and that earned me a ticket to the Premier Soccer League,” he said. His joy at breakthrough into the PSL was however short lived due to bereavement in his family. “I lost my big sister and this was a major drawback for me. I had a difficult time copying with her death while at the same time trying to settle in, in a new environment,” he said. “However God was in control and I managed to pull through his phase. I would want to thank my brother Brian and former manager Steady Kachere who motivated me when I lost my sister. They have played a big role in my career as well.” He signed for Mutare City Rovers in 2018 and moved to Ngezi Platinum Stars where he excelled as a striker before he was loaned to Bulawayo Chiefs FC last year. Reflecting on his career so far Veremu said he has had some bitter sweet memories over the years. “My worst game was at Mandava Stadium in 2018 when I was still playing for Mutare City and we were playing FC Platinum. We were hammered 6-0,” he said. “The most memorable was when I scored a winner when we were playing Shabanie mine at Vengere Stadium. This gave me a lot of courage when helped me to excel as a striker.” Looking ahead Veremu said his focus is on retaining his award and remain the club’s top goal scorer. “My ultimate goal is to earn a call up to the national team and to secure a move to teams abroad,” he said. “My dream is to play for Arsenal FC in the United Kingdom or Inter Milan in Italy.” On people who have inspired and assisted him to excel in his footballing career, Veremu said: “On the local scene I was inspired by Obadiah Tarumbwa and internationally I look up to Aubameyang and Alexander Isak and it is also my wish to reach their level.” During his spare time Veremu likes to swim and read novels. His favourite food is spaghetti and beef stew. Nyasha Mabwe is a Journalism, Media and Broadcast student at the University of Zimbabwe