The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter IN what may sound like an April Fool’s Day story, Dynamos legendary goalkeeper Gift “Umbro” Muzadzi turned back the hands of time when he kept goal for the Glamour Boys in a practice match against Yadah on Saturday. Not that the former Warriors ‘keeper wanted to keep fit, as is the case with most coaches, but this was a desperate move by the Harare giants who currently have just one goalkeeper — Taimon Mvula. The two Harare teams competed in a two-phased match with each fielding a different set of players in those phases. DeMbare claimed both sets 1-0 and 2-1. But it was the presence of Muzadzi in Dynamos’ goals in the second instalment that particularly caught the eye. With close to two decades since his last competitive match before hanging up his gloves, the Dynamos goalkeepers’ coach displayed the antics which defined his illustrious career. And he kept a clean sheet, too. Keen to reclaim their glory days, Dynamos have been busy on the transfer market where they have already signed seven high-profile players including three foreigners. But coach Tonderai Ndiraya has not been so lucky with finding another goalkeeper who can complement and compete with Mvula. The Herald understands Dynamos’ priority was to bring back Simba Chinani who is now with rivals CAPS United. Chinani, who was a key figure at DeMbare between 2017 and 2019, left the club rather unceremoniously following an unsanctioned and failed trial stint in South Africa. The goalie trained with the team but couldn’t be patient after the club took long to register him. He eventually decided to cross the delicate divide to the Green Machine where he is struggling to elbow out No 1 goalie Tonderai Mateyaunga. Ironically, the latter was once the former’s understudy at the Glamour Boys. “Yes, Muzadzi was in goals for us in the first phase of our practice game against Yadah on Saturday, “said Ndiraya. “Remember we only had one goalkeeper, Taimon Mvula with us. So he (Mvula) needed some rest. “Then Muzadzi kept goal and he kept a clean sheet. “It was a remarkable moment for both the team and Muzadzi himself. “Our search for an experienced goalkeeper continues. In fact, we are looking at signing two top goalkeepers. “We need to bring someone who can compete for a place with Taimon Mvula. Someone who is more or less like Mvula. That is the individual we are looking at getting. “This is one of the most sensitive positions in the game. We need at least three very good goalkeepers yet we only have one at the moment.” Ndiraya refused to shed more light on Dynamos’ reported interest in Chinani. There have also been reports he was chasing after Ngezi Platinum Stars goalkeeper Nelson Chadya. “Our search for the two goalkeepers is still on. We haven’t approached anyone at the moment. We are still deliberating on who we can get before we start engaging them. “Dynamos is a big team and we need big names there and that includes at the goalkeeping department so expect a big name.” Mvula’s two deputies Geoffrey Chitsumba and Tanyaradzwa Jinja have left but the former has been invited back to the club. Chitsumba, according to Ndiraya, is a good goalkeeper, and the gaffer is still keen to have him at Dynamos although the player was already considering a career outside the Glamour Boys. But, he has been invited back at Dynamos. That means instead of pursuing two goalies, Dynamos will be looking at taking aboard just one with Jinja having no chance of returning, at least for now.