The Herald Ellina Mhlanga–Senior Sports Reporter PREMIER Netball League defending champions Platinum Queens are hoping to maintain their dominance when they take part in the pre-season tournament at the Stodart Netball Complex in Mbare.The one-day competition is expected to feature more than 20 teams that will be divided into four groups. The top two teams advance to the quarter-finals. Platinum Queens are the defending champions for the tournament and the league as well. The club’s coach, Simbarashe Mlambo, said they are ready for the games. “I think first and foremost, we want to play to enjoy ourselves. A bit of competition will do us good. But there is no pressure really, it’s just an opening tournament and we are defending it. “We have been defending these for quite sometime and obviously our opponents are under pressure they want to upset us and we know that. “We are just going to have to be prepared mentally, physically we are okay and just have a good time and see how it goes by the end of the day,” said Mlambo.  The reigning PNL champions began their pre-season preparations early and will be hoping for a positive start ahead of the league games. “I feel it’s very important to just see one or two things, get a feel of the level of competition this year. “When you are defending the league title you just want to be able to see if your girls are up to the task and mentally how prepared they are and all that. So it’s going to be a nice exercise for us tomorrow (today),” said Mlambo. He is looking at giving a chance to the young players in the team such as goal shooter Sithabile Manyukire, Esther Kasiku and Elizabeth Mushore. “We don’t have new players as yet. We just have young players who are full of energy and we just want to give them a chance tomorrow and see how it goes,” Mlambo said. The tournament presents clubs with a platform to assess their preparations for the new season and identify their weaknesses before the league begins. Harare City coach, Ropafadzo Mutsauki, is not expecting much since they have just started their preparations for the season. “I am not expecting much from tomorrow’s tournament in terms of results because we started our preparations late. I think today may be our fourth day training, so we are still behind in terms of fitness level.  Some teams started early and that can affect us as well. “Then also, on my side, I usually concentrate on assessing my team to see where to start from as we are building on from where we left last year and identify areas that we need to work on, and where we need to make some additions to strengthen the team, especially shooting and defence. “But the team that played last year, we did not have experienced players. We had more young players and I am expecting to continue with those young players this year even if I add one or two players. It will help them and boost their confidence,” Mutsauki said. Harare City finished second in the league last season. PNL are also holding their annual meeting today at the same venue in Mbare.