The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter “Do it or not. There is no try.” The above adage describes businessman and author Dr Rinos Mautsa who today is living by his word as he is set to launch his first book entitled “The Will of Time: A Passionate Journey of Perseverance, Focus, Emotion, Drive and Tenacity”. What makes this launch unique is that Dr Mautsa is having powerful motivational speakers under one roof. The executive launch will be held at the Rainbow Towers, VIP Room and will run under the “formal” dress code. Some of the reputable speakers expected to grace the event includes Nyaradzo Group chief executive Dr Phillip Mataranyika, Securico founding member and managing director Dr Divine Ndhlukula, businessman Ken Sharpe, Apostle Batsirai Java, TelOne chief executive Chipo Mutasa and Dr Chamu Chiwanza among others. In an interview with The Herald Arts, author Dr Mautsa said it is a dream come true as he longed for this project to pass. “I can say I have been waiting for this moment. The book is a narrative full of life lessons. In the book, I have been sharing a lot of gems that make successful entrepreneurs, drawing from the experiences of real-life characters Zivai, James and Linnet, whose everyday poignant sojourns shape the main plot,” he said. Dr Mautsa interweaves the journeys of his key characters to illustrate crucial business principles. “It took me about two years to start preparing and writing about this book. I want everyone who reads it to understand and be motivated that you can do it no matter what the situation as long as you have your goals and are focused. The book is a manual guide to those who want to venture into business. Tonight I decided to have captains of industry, the role models of the society to come shape up and talk to people, make them believe that it is possible to do it,” he explained. Asked to describe himself, Dr Rinos said he was a faith driven, risk taker, undaunted by setbacks and ever inspired to ensure a bright future for humanity. “Being a renowned entrepreneur with successful business interests in construction, ICT, hospitality and energy sectors have made me remain an iconic individual in the market place. My business operations span beyond the borders of Zimbabwe touching Botswana, Namibia, Malawi, South Africa and Zambia. I also sit on a number of boards for leading organisations across Africa. I aim to have two books released this year,” he said. The book will be on Amazon by weekend and selected book stores countrywide. He added that his marketing team are setting up a tour of the book in universities and colleges where lucky students will also get a chance to get a signed copy and a picture with the author. His friends in business who have read the book before its launch described it as a masterpiece. “It is a must-read treasure trove, and presents a fit for purpose toolkit for those who have made up their minds to join the trenches of business. It is the quintessential inspirational story, carved and shaped in gritty yet equally beautiful Africa. Coming as it does from one of the most successful young business leaders of his generation in Zimbabwe, many young persons who will get the opportunity of flipping through its pages will extract invaluable nuggets that they can use when they embark on their entrepreneurial journey,” said Mataranyika. “I find Dr Mautsa an epitome of the contemporary African entrepreneur, driven yet selfless, who characteristically is prepared to share his story of success with the world, a story anchored on focus, resilience, flair and determination among other key attributes. He challenges his humble early circumstances, to register phenomenal success and be counted among some of Zimbabwe’s most successful young entrepreneurs.” He added that his engaging story has the potential to change the fortunes of those from similar backgrounds who care to follow Dr Mautsa’s prescriptions. “Whereas other motivational books discuss concepts, Mautsa’s book juxtaposes such real human characters with their unique stories, and readers will easily relate and learn from these archetypes. The book uses simple, easy to understand language that makes it a reference for any group or class of people. The purpose of communicating in writing is that the author must be heard by his target audience,” said Mataranyika. He later endorsed the book and said that Dr Mautsa managed to communicate with his audiences effectively.