The Herald Senior Arts Reporter Businessman and arts promoter Exevia Maoneke of Wezhaz Executive Cars has challenged creatives and players in business to be innovative so that they achieve more success. Speaking at a brand activation event for leading fashion house, ‘Trend-Zone Defined Wear, over the weekend, Maoneke said creatives and business owners must research and innovate to stay relevant in business. “Success in business is all about innovation, research and investing wisely so that you don’t go bankrupt,” he said. “There is a lot of competition out there and the sooner you realise that the better. Trends keep changing in every sector and one must be innovative to stay ahead of their competition.” Maoneke, who took guests through his journey from rural Chivi in Masvingo to become a respected businessman with various investments and properties in the country, said all Zimbabweans must play their part in building the economy and avoid complacency in all they do. “This brand activation of Trend-Zone Defined Wear is one good example of what innovation can do for your business,” he said. “I have shopped here and I can attest to the uniqueness of their services and products. “The fact that they are introducing the corporate branding and image consultancy line to their business is a demonstration of clarity of intent and I pray all Zimbabweans follow such scripts in business.” Trend-Zone Defined Wear managing director Florence Rupapa said she was buoyed by the support and will continue giving her best to grow her business. “We are a brand for and by the people and we are grateful for the continued support over the years. “We have dressed some of the big names in Zimbabwe, including legends like Madzibaba Nicholas Zakaria, and we hope to take it further as we introduce our corporate branding and image consultancy services. Everyone must look their best and we are here to help you achieve that.” Pride Manyika of Business Shower with Miss Pride, whose women in business organisation partnered in the co-ordination of the event, thanked the Government for the space and opportunities for ordinary Zimbabweans. “We are operating in a generally challenging environment, but we are happy that our Government has continued to create space and opportunities for ordinary Zimbabweans, including women,” she said. “As a women in business organisation, we want to congratulate Trend-Zone Defined Wear for the continued milestones and we hope they continue winning.” Contemporary music group Fusion 5 Mangwiro and Joel Chiweda provided entertainment at the event where guests enjoyed the mini-exhibition and also got to buy some specials in the shop.