The Herald Dylan Munashe Dzenga–Youth Interactive Writer Content is most definitely a large part of the 21st century citizens’ everyday lives to the extent that one can merely avoid it. Through content, people are informed, their questions are answered for various topics, and they are entertained and also guided in decision making. In Zimbabwe, youths have improved their lifestyles and are becoming financially independent through monetisation of their content. Lynn Muyemeki is a 22-year-old dance choreographer from Mandara who has been gaining financially from the content she creates on social media. She recently graduated with a first class degree in Accounting and Finance at Parul University in India. “My interest in dancing did not start when I was all grown up, but it is something  that I passionately loved when I was a little kid and I would dance for my mom so that she could buy sweets for me,” says Lynn. The social media content creator started recording her dance videos and publishing them during the 2020 Covid-19 Lockdown. The response from the audience is what she believes pushed her to continue on this path and nurture her talent. “I sometimes draw my inspiration from local choreographers like John Cole, Mitchel Native, Lissa Tanaka, who is one of Jah Prayzah’s famous dancers, and Proud Tatenda Muguhu, those guys really inspire me a lot,” she says Lynn is currently employed, in terms of her area of study, Accounting and Finance. The youth had thoughts of taking dance as a lifetime profession but says the entertainment industry in Zimbabwe can be very difficult to get assistance and be recognized, hence she thought of the path as “a hard nut to crack” Lynn’s talent and social media content has attracted multiple artists hiring her to feature on their music videos. “So far, I have only agreed to feature in gospel music videos with prominent artists like Kee Hove, Baba Manyeruke and Isaac Ikey Nyoni and believe, the experience was exceptional,” said the choreographer Besides featuring on full music videos, Lynn has also been requested by many artists in the Zimdancehall, RnB and Hip Hop to do dance challenges in promotion of their songs. In other words the young and talented lady is a Digital Marketer for most artists in Zimbabwe. “Some of the challenges I face as a rising content creator is that I have to do everything by myself, from shooting the videos and editing them, which can be a bit of overbearing for one person. Reputation is also something that is difficult to build and create in Zimbabwe,” says Lynn Not only has Lynn gotten to change her lifestyle through content creation but many other youths out there discovered their hidden gems that can help them grow financially during the lockdown period of 2020. Through content creation, Zimbabwean youths have become brand ambassadors, digital marketers and sales agents for various businesses because of their very much lively audience on social media platforms. The venture is also one of the fastest growing industries in Zimbabwe.