The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter HARARE giants, CAPS United, director Farai Jere believes the Green Machine have responded to their recent woes in a big way, after unveiling highly-rated midfielder, Tatenda Tavengwa, ahead of today’s Castle Lager Premiership football clash with Ngezi Platinum Stars at the National Sports Stadium. Tavengwa, who joined the club from Harare City where he previously played under coach Lloyd Chitembwe, is the latest player to join the bandwagon at Makepekepe after Dennis Dauda, Lincoln Mangaira, Devon Chafa, Rodwell Chinyengetere, William Manondo, Tawana Chikore and Kenneth Bulaji. The midfielder penned a two-year contract after ditching Harare City, who have apparently been dilly-dallying in renewing his contract. Makepekepe are looking to add another defender to balance their squad, with veteran Marshall Machazane from Harare City under the radar. The Green Machine now look a decent outfit after replacing a number of players that left the club during the current window. With all the new signings, including Tavengwa, available for selection this afternoon, Chitembwe looks spoilt for choice. The 24-year-old Tavengwa is a steady midfielder who is confident on the ball in both defensive and attacking roles. After graduating from the national Under-23 side, he became a member of the Warriors squad for the COSAFA and CHAN squads last year and was being eyed by big clubs, including Dynamos. “We are happy to announce the signing of Tavengwa. He is a top midfielder who we believe will add value to our midfield. “This is exciting news considering that people were talking about an exodus at CAPS United and how we were going to be weakened this season. But I tell you good leadership is all about finding a way out of situations. “That so-called exodus turned out to be a clearance of excess baggage. Look at the players that have gone and the ones that we have signed. It’s actually an upgrade. “We went for strategic buying. We targeted quality and not the numbers. I believe we have a squad good enough to compete for the championship, replete with experience and a number of younger players. “We have been doing purposeful business. Right now we are going for the 60/40 balance between results and the commercial aspect,” said Jere. Makepekepe resumed their Premiership campaign last week with a 1-1 draw against Black Rhinos at Sakubva. Newboy William Manondo scored on debut but they were denied maximum points when they conceded a late goal. While Ngezi Platinum have two wins from three games, CAPS United are yet to win a match this season after playing three draws. Chitembwe will be expecting more from his charges with Chafa, Ronald Chitiyo, Phenias Bamusi and Ian Nyoni expected to feature in exciting midfield battles against the likes of Denver Mukamba, Marvelous Mukumba and Last Jesi. Chafa will be facing his former paymasters for the first time since he made the move from Ngezi Platinum earlier this month. His replacement Jesi, who has previously played for champions FC Platinum and Sudan’s Al Hilal, was unveiled last week among the four new additions by Ngezi Platinum Stars. The Mhondoro side also unveiled ex-CAPS United defender Carlos Mavhurume, former Zimbabwe youth international Delic Murimba, Tapiwa Sibanda and Takunda Benhura who was promoted from the Under-19 side following a prolific outing in the ZIFA Central Region Division One. Fixture Today: CAPS United v Ngezi Platinum (National Sports Stadium) 