The Herald Grace Chingoma-Senior Sports Reporter THE ZIFA Northern Region Division One chairman, Martin Kweza, has condemned the recent utterances by the suspended ZIFA president, Felton Kamambo, calling for a FIFA ban on Zimbabwe. Kweza said this goes to show that the under-fire leader and some of his fellow suspended board members have always been a selfish lot. He said the latest action by Kamambo after he was barred from travelling to Cameroon to watch the African Cup of Nations final match over the weekend was unfortunate and merely driven by selfish interests at the expense of the nation. Kweza, who speaks on behalf of the ZIFA councillors pushing for an Extraordinary General Meeting, yesterday issued a statement attacking Kamambo and his cabal. Already, Permanent Secretary of Information, Publicity, and Broadcasting Services, Nick Mangwana, has chided Kamambo on social media for inviting a FIFA ban on Zimbabwe. Kamambo and his board of five members were suspended last year in November by the Sports Commission. However, Kamambo, and two other board members, Philemon Machana and Bryton Malandule, have been pulling out all the stops to lift up the suspension. The latest move irked the ZIFA councillors that are patiently waiting for 90 days before they renew their bid to revoke ZIFA board members’ term of office through constitutional means. “We reiterate once more, for the avoidance of doubt that our petition to call for an EGM, whose agenda is to revoke the mandate of one or more members of the suspended committee, was always premised to stop this selfish act by the committee. “We note with concern two letters as referenced in an article carried in the Sunday Mail of the 6th of February 2022. These letters summarily call for a ban on ZIFA by FIFA. The suspended executive committee acknowledged having authored the said letters addressed to FIFA in their press statement of the 6th of February 2022. “They claim that the letters were merely for information. There is no doubt that these letters are toxic, no wonder the suspended executive committee, hasn’t leaked them to date, as per their norm. A reading of the said letters, however, shows that it’s not only informative but also calling upon FIFA to act swiftly in a particular way. It’s apparent from the content of the letter that what the suspended executive committee is calling for, is a ban of the association from FIFA. “The suspended executive committee wants FIFA to act in a particular way so as to prompt (the) SRC to lift their suspension. It must be further noted that these two letters are in response to a FIFA letter dated the 21st of December 2021. “It is clear once more that the letter was issued at the insistence of the suspended executive. The FIFA letter was very explicit as it ordered SRC to reinstate the suspended ZIFA executive committee by the 3rd of December 2021. Failure by SRC to take heed of the directive would result in FIFA imposing the ban on Zimbabwe from International football. “It is our view as the concerned football stakeholders, that this call for a ban is tantamount to calling for sanctions against the country and is a clear sign of acting contrary to the national and public interest. The effects of the FIFA ban are far-reaching and disastrous to football development. We cannot survive on our own and as such, it is crucial to maintain healthy internal and external relationships with all concerned football stakeholders,” wrote Kweza. Kweza believes football development should be every leader’s objective when in office. “Our primary concern should be football development and not personal interest. The letter by the suspended executive committee also makes reference to previous correspondences between the parties, making it apparent that even the letter from FIFA was a result of influence and persuasion from the suspended executive committee. We reiterate once more, for the avoidance of doubt, that our petition to call for an EGM, whose agenda is to revoke the mandate of one or more members of the suspended committee, was always premised to stop this selfish act by the committee. “We categorically state that we are independent in this call and remain collectively bound to each other as the assembly in our quest to save football and further continue to champion its development. We condemn this call for a ban by the suspended executive committee in the strongest terms possible. We speak for football and allude that their call has no support whatsoever from any right-minded members of the Assembly and fellow Zimbabweans at large. “The call for a ban was never sanctioned by the Assembly, who in any event stand to suffer more from the devastating effects of the said ban, other than what the suspended members can ever claim to suffer, both individually or collectively. “Their continued fight is personal and selfish. Once again kindly note, the action by the suspended executive committee does not have the blessings of the Congress. The Congress remains the supreme decision-making body of ZIFA in such matters contrary to any other misguided utterances. “The congress was never at any time seized with a resolution asking FIFA to ban Zimbabwe. Congress’ position in this matter is very clear and shall always remain so, as we wait to convene our EGM. A FIFA ban for whatever reason is not in the best interest of our football. The suspended executive committee has lost national interest and is now pursuing its own personal interest at the expense of national football development,” said Kweza.