The Herald Pretoria. — A song composed four years ago by the late music icon Oliver Mtukudzi hits the digital streets today. The song, titled “My Better Half”, was recorded by Mtukudzi with fellow Zimbabwean Afro-fusion singer, Mbeu. The love ballad is a first release of Mtukudzi since his passing three years ago. “My Better Half” will be part of the legend’s upcoming 68th album Abiangu 2, which in Shona means friends. It’s a follow-up to his 2011 album Abiangu. Samantha, Mtukudzi’s daughter, told Sowetan on Thursday: “It makes me  proud that in his death people still love and appreciate him. People still hold on to his memory. With his new song, people will feel even more attached to him. “It’s a love song and it drops at the right time during the month of love. I love the song. It is simple, mellow and slow and the lyrics are powerful. As the family, we loved the song even when they were still working on it in the studio. Love is a simple language and you don’t have to say a lot,” she added. Mbeu, whose real name is Ashton Tapiwa Nyahora, said: “I am excited that the song will finally be released. It is a special song to me because it features one of my heroes. We recorded the song four years ago while he was still alive. Honestly, it was an honour for me that he chose me to collaborate with him out of many artists he knew. When it comes to the video, we had an idea that we were going to appear in it with our wives because it is a love song.” Speaking on the album concept prior to his death, Mtukudzi told his recording company, Gallo Records, that he could only do a duet with a friend. “I cannot have a duet song with myself. It can only be a duet with a friend. Your heart which is so close to me, just as mine is to yours, can only be this close by accepting each other.” Mbeu is a product of Pakare Paye Arts Centre in Norton, 36km west of Harare, founded by Mtukudzi. Mbeu has released four albums to date. The song “My Better Half “is one of many initiatives that Tuku Music Estate and family have undertaken to keep his legacy alive. These include the Oliver Mtukudzi Memorial Half Marathon, which was launched on January 23 in Norton to mark the anniversary of the singer’s death. — sowetan.