The Herald Crime Reporter A 34-year-old self-styled Murehwa “prophet” has been arrested on allegations of stealing a Toyota Belta worth US$4 000 belonging to a client during a cleansing ceremony on a mountain in Mutoko. He was caught when he offered lifts, including to a plain clothes police officer who alerted colleagues from her passenger seat. Micah Chiremba of Chirova Village in Chinamhora, was arrested by the police in Murehwa after they picked up the warning and mounted a roadblock along the Harare-Nyamapanda Highway on Tuesday. He simply drove into their arms. Investigations revealed that Chiremba met the car owner, a woman, at Mutoko Business Centre, after they had made some arrangements for spiritual deliverance. The two then drove to Mutemwa Mountain for prayer sessions where Chiremba later covered the woman with a black and white cloth before ordering her to pray by herself. He then stole the car keys and a wallet, before driving off unnoticed. Chiremba ferried some passengers, including a police officer in plain clothes at the business centre and drove towards Harare. The police officer noticed some bad driving conduct and notified detectives from Murehwa who then mounted a roadblock, leading to his arrest. Criminal Investigation Department (CID) spokesperson Detective Inspector Portia Chinho said Chiremba and the businesswoman parked her car at the foot of Mutemwa Mountain and then walked to the top of the mountain for the prayer sessions. “The accused person ordered the complainant to remove her shoes and leave her belongings outside the shrine in line with dictates of the shrine,” she said. “The accused person went on to perform the allegedly spiritual deliverance before covering the complainant with a black and white cloth and ordered the complainant to pray for herself.” Det Insp Chinho said while the victim was praying, Chiremba sneaked away, searched the complainant’s handbag and stole car keys, a cellphone and a wallet with personal documents. He proceeded to the parked vehicle and drove off towards Harare. “Along the way, the accused person picked up passengers at Mutoko Business Centre. His driving conduct was bad and this prompted one of the passengers to alert the police,” said Det Insp Chinho. “She alerted detectives from CID Murewa who mounted a roadblock and intercepted the vehicle. The accused was arrested and the vehicle recovered. The accused person is set to appear at Murewa Magistrates Court on 03 February 2022 (yesterday).” Det Insp Chinho urged members of the public to be wary of criminals who masquerade as self-styled prophets and duping unsuspecting victims of their properties and hard earned cash.