The Herald Latwell Nyangu Youth Interactive Writer The beautiful thing about learning is that no one can take it away from you. Most importantly it is every parent’s wish to see their children achieving greatness despite financial challenges. The sacrifice should be reciprocated in the long run. Many at times, parents and guardians have failed to enjoy their holidays in the month of December saving for the January first term. As schools open on Monday, let the children learn and fulfil their dreams. Despite the setback of academic pursuit by Covid-19 waves, schools open on February 7 and every pupil will be at school. This is the most important day for the learners and it is good news for the education sector. The development is a positive move towards attaining education which is a basic right for every human being. Preparations for reopening of schools reached advanced stages last week with the Government ensuring all schools were compliant with Covid-19 control protocols. THE back to school fever is already upon us, with some parents panicking due to budgetary constraints. It’s a good start for uniform traders as well as the stationery business that had drastically slowed over the past months. Schools had remained closed for the most part of 2021 after continuous resurgence of Covid-19 waves which disturbed learning institutions. The back to school rush has knocked on the doors early this year, with just under six days to go before examination classes return to school, while the other classes had just under two weeks to get their act together but things changed when Government indefinitely postponed opening of schools. The school calendar has since been released, with first term beginning on Monday and ending on  Monday 4 April. The second term begins on Tuesday 3 May and ends  on Thursday 4 August. The third terms begins on Monday 5 September and ends on Thursday 8 December. According to UNICEF, an estimated 616 million children are currently affected by full or partial school closures. Its known that mitigation measures help keep schools open and investments in digital connectivity can help to make sure that no child is left behind. There is need to take bold action to enable every child to return to school. This includes providing comprehensive support, especially for marginalised children in each community, such as catch-up classes, mental health and nutrition support, protection and other key services. Teachers and other school staff should immediately get vaccinated. Teachers and school personnel should be fully supported and prioritised to receive Covid-19 vaccines. Schools should  ensure that children are equipped with skills that would transform them into business people for the development of the nation. Schools should expose learners to as many practical skills development projects as possible. This is how the productive business mindset is developed from a very young age as a weapon to fight poverty and various social ills, Happy back to school and good luck!