The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter SPECULATION continue to swirl around the future of France-based Zimbabwe international Tino Kadewere who is now being linked with English Premiership football strugglers Burnley. Reports from England this week suggested that Kadewere, who is currently in the books of French Ligue 1 side Olympique Lyon, is being targeted by The Clarets for the coming summer window. Apparently, Sean Dyche’s basement side are planning to reunite Kadewere with his former Lyon teammate Maxwel Cornet even with their English Premier League status uncertain. They are hoping to turn around their fortunes with the frontline of Ivorian Cornet, Kadewere and Dutchman Wout Weghorst. Burnley have been having a particularly difficult outing this season. They are currently seven points away from the position of safety with the season now in the second half. The Clarets have been much improved in their last two games. But they’ve still picked up just one point in that time, albeit against Manchester United and Liverpool. The arrival of Weghorst – one of the finest goalscorers in the Bundesliga and a massive upgrade on Chris Wood – has given Burnley fans reason for optimism at least. The return of Cornet, by far and away their finest player this season, from the African Cup of Nations was also a huge boost. However, Burnley did not manage to get another new forward during the January window after a deal for Croatia international Mislav Orsic fell apart at the eleventh hour. According to The Sun, the Clarets couldn’t seal Kadewere’s signature either. Reports indicated they are planning to return for the 26-year-old Zimbabwean in the summer. However, their hopes of luring him to Turf Moor may depend upon whether they can haul themselves off the bottom of the table and out of the drop zone. Kadewere is now in his second season at Lyon sealing a £12 million move in 2020 from Ligue 2 side, Le Havre. He had a flying start in Ligue one scoring 10 goals in 33 appearances. But he is still to break the duck this season in 11 Ligue 1 and Europa League matches. Kadewere has been a victim of injuries in the last 12 months and this has weighed heavily on his form. Recently he was also linked with a move away from Lyon but stayed put as the window closed on January 31. Kadewere’s future at Lyon has become a subject of intense speculation after the 26-year-old fell down the pecking order at the club on the back of recurring injuries and general loss of form. French news outlets reported last month that Kadewere was being tracked by at least four clubs that include Marshall Munetsi’s Stade de Reims, Troys, Lorient and Rennes. Kadewere was part of the Zimbabwe team at the recent AFCON tournament in Cameroon. He featured in all three group matches as the Warriors were eliminated from the tournament early. However, the lanky forward has not played a big part for Lyon in the current campaign. Kadewere has made one start and six substitute appearances in the Ligue One campaign. The former Harare City forward enjoyed a successful debut season in France’s topflight league after arriving from Le Havre with the reputation of winning the Ligue 2 Golden Boot. He finished the season with 10 goals in 33 appearances. He also provided three assists as Olympic Lyon finished fourth behind champions Lille, PSG and Monaco. Having impressed last season under Rudi Garcia, Kadewere was expected to play another big part for Lyon this year following the departure of Dembele. But he is yet to impress new manager, Peter Bosz, who has deployed him sparingly in what has turned out to be a difficult season for the side.