The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter DETHRONED Logan Cup cricket champions Rocks have said they will not go down without a fight when they line up against title hopefuls Mountaineers in their last match of the season that begins today at Harare Sports Club. Rocks, who won their maiden domestic first class cricket title last year, relinquished the crown after just one season after a run of suppressed results in the current season. The six-wicket defeat at the hands of Tuskers in their penultimate round this week put paid to their hopes of defending the title in the four-day competition. Mountaineers on the other hand emerged 10-wicket victors over Rhinos to narrow down the 2021-2022 Logan Cup title contest to a two-horse race between them and Tuskers. Tuskers lead the Logan Cup log table on 53 points while Mountaineers are in second place with 50 points. But with Tuskers having completed their matches, Mountaineers appear to have much control in the destiny of the title as they need at least five points from a draw against Rhinos to seal championship victory in their last game. Rocks still have a say in the destiny of the championship although they are out of reckoning. Their coach Shepherded Makunura yesterday said his team is looking to end the season on a positive note. “It’s unfortunate in the last game against Tuskers we were missing some of our key players in Richmond Mutumbami and William Mashinge who were on suspension after accumulating maximum demerit points. “But they are back for this last game. We would like to end the season on a high note and for that reason we are taking this game seriously. “We know the title is now beyond us but we will definitely not hand Mountaineers any favours nor the title on a silver platter. We just have to be professional. That’s how we are going to approach this game,” said Makunura. Rocks fell behind in the championship race after winning only one game, drawing four and losing two from seven outings this season. Makunura made history last year when he led the Masvingo-based franchise to their maiden title. He had previously won three titles in succession with Mountaineers. “It’s always nice to win trophies. We had wanted to defend our title but credit to the top two teams Mountaineers and Tuskers. They played well to be where they are at the moment. “I think we also played some good cricket but our major weakness was our young bowling attack. We missed our top bowler Blessing Muzarabani for most of the season and that obviously was a disadvantage for us. “We also had many drawn games (four), some of which we felt we could have won. But it’s not all gloom and doom because this season we also discovered some exciting prospects who we feel will make the future bright for Rocks. “In the absence of Muzarabani, Trevor Mutsamba did well. Mashinge was also finding his way back into the game lately and then we gave Logan Cup debuts to Nkosilathi Nungu and Privilege Chesa. “These guys are just 21-year-olds and it always augurs well for the future when they get the opportunity to play against established players,” said Makunura. Tuskers will be watching from a distance as Mountaineers and Rocks battle it out in the decisive game of the season. Both Mountaineers and Tuskers are standing on the brink of clocking a record five Logan Cup titles in the modern era of franchise cricket in Zimbabwe. Meanwhile, bottom of the table sides Rocks and Health Alliance Eagles will be involved in a fight to avoid finishing in the basement at Old Hararians. Logan Cup Fixtures Mountaineers v Rocks (Harare Sports Club), Health Alliance Eagles v Rhinos (Old Hararians) 