The Herald LONDON. — The Global Esports Federation (GEF) has announced appointments to the roles of tournament director and Co-ordination Commission chair as the build-up to the first-ever Commonwealth Esports Championships continues. Kelvin Tan, director of esports at the GEF, has been named as tournament director while Chester King, GEF vice-president and chief executive of the British Esports Association, has been named as chair of the Co-ordination Commission. The first-ever Commonwealth Esports Championships are scheduled to be held at the International Convention Centre in Birmingham, England, on August 6 and 7. The event will have separate medals and branding, and be organised apart from the Commonwealth Games, although the Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF) Executive Board has approved it taking place alongside Birmingham 2022, which is due to be held between July 28 and August 8. The CGF and GEF announced a partnership to develop an esports strategy in May 2020, while the exploration of esports was one of the areas identified in the GGF’s 2026-2030 strategic roadmap. “The Commonwealth Esports Championships is a breakthrough for esports and will be staged in the Commonwealth Games host city of Birmingham,” said Paul J Foster, chief executive of the GEF. “Following the mind-blowing viewership at December’s Singapore 2021 Global Esports Games, with more than 500 million global views, it’s exciting to start moving and taking our prestigious event portfolio to cheering fans around the world again.” The first team preparation guide meeting is due to be held this week, with the CGF, GEF and British Esports Association set to jointly lead the meeting, designed to brief delegations as they begin team selections and preparations. Prior to the Commonwealth Esports Championships, a Commonwealth Esports Forum, designed to bring together thought leaders and idea creators, is due to take place at the same venue on August 5. Partners including FACEIT, responsible for production of the Championships, IMG, which produced the 2021 Global Esports Games, and the West Midlands Growth Company, which drives tourism, investment and major events in the region, are also set to meet with the GEF as part of preparations for the Commonwealth Esports Championships. — Insidethegame.com