The Herald Business Reporter AWARD-WINNING entrepreneur, Dr Rinos Mautsa, will launch his book, “The Will of Time” on February 25. The book will be launched in Harare. Dr Mautsa is the founder of several enterprises, including Picco Construction, Tech24 Group, Leisure Plus, Energy Plus, Chartered Institute of Customer Management (CICM) and Contact Centre Association of Zimbabwe (CCAZ). “The Will of Time”, which looks at different entrepreneurial journeys, has received some rave reviews from several of the country’s businesspersons and leaders from various sectors. Said Nyaradzo Group chief executive Philip Mataranyika: “Dr Mautsa interweaves the journeys of his key characters to illustrate crucial business principles. “Coming as it does from one of the most successful young business leaders of his generation in Zimbabwe, many young persons who will get the opportunity of flipping through its pages will extract invaluable nuggets that they can use when they embark on their entrepreneurial journey.” Rwandese multi-millionaire and Mara Group CEO, Ashish Thakkar, said the book captured what it means to be an entrepreneur. “A brilliant ensemble of journeys by Rinos that encapsulates the real-life struggles and successes of entrepreneurs with a rollercoaster of emotions, bravery and resilience,” said Mr Thakkar. Businessman and philanthropist, Frank Buyanga described the book as “intriguing”. “I find this book intriguing and exploratory, the title is eye-catching but even more spiritually led as a remembrance to the book of Ecclesiastes in the Bible. “I believe you have the passion it takes to build a better Africa,” said Mr Buyanga. West Properties group chief executive, Ken Sharpe, said: “I read this book and I love the concept, the characters and the plot. “It’s right up my street because I’m one of those suckers for perseverance, for sweet suffering and pain that leads to great results. “I believe God doesn’t allow us to go through anything that we aren’t supposed to.” All On chief executive, Dr Wiebe Boer, said ‘The Will of Time’ is a must-read. “The Will of Time is a must read for any aspiring entrepreneur in Africa. “Though a work of fiction, the author uses his own personal stories, experience, and deep understanding of what it takes to succeed in business on the continent to weave a compelling tale of different paths to success,” he said. “Rather than a standard business book, Dr Mautsa outlines key success principles using a captivating fictional story to draw in readers who might not otherwise pick up a book on business. “This is a phenomenal book with wisdom and universal entrepreneurship lessons that will inspire readers to pursue their entrepreneurial dreams, no matter where they are starting from.” African Leadership Institute CEO Dr Jackie Chimhanzi said Dr Mautsa’s story will inspire the next generation of entrepreneurs. “Rinos Mautsa’s life journey is nothing short of inspiring! “His resilience, determination, focus and entrepreneurial flair brought him out of very challenging circumstances to be the successful entrepreneur he is today,” said Dr Chimhanzi. “In ‘The Will of Time’, he uses his life story to inspire others, whilst removing himself as the focus of the story. “It is heartwarming and encouraging to witness the culture of writing taking root amongst young Africans. “As Africans, we need to write more, document our experiences and tell our stories to others — now and for posterity”