The Herald Danai Chitakasha-Special Correspondent A TALE is told of one football fan who boarded those old emergency Peugeot 404 pirate taxis which plied the Machipisa to Mbare route in Harare. He wanted to watch the match between Dynamos and Rio Tinto but above all Moses Chunga, who was then a talented raw genius getting rave reviews for his scintillating performances. The expectant fan settled in the boot of the rickety car and a football discussion ensued. “Who will win this match?” this fan asked a fellow passenger. “It will be tough for Dynamos because Moses (Chunga) is injured today and will not play . . . !” The other fan with up-to-date information said: “What!!, Mozi is not playing, driver stop the car, I am going back home!!” The car came to a screeching halt around the Southerton area and true to his word the fan dropped off. When I first heard this, I dismissed it as one of those exaggerated football stories. But it is true, there were players who made fans make every effort to come to the stadium. They were crowd pullers and it is to these that I dedicate this article. My closest experience to the above scenario was when I interacted with my friend’s brother, Mukoma Lovemore. Being Mbare-born and bred, he was a staunch Dynamos supporter from the 1970s, a “DeMbarean” by birth. When I met him around 1988 in Kuwadzana where he was now residing, he confessed that he had not watched Dynamos play since George Shaya retired. This must come as a surprise to many because the Dynamos of the late 80s was full of great players. But for Mukoma Lavhu, without Shaya there was no need to go to the stadium. He still supported the team but the joy of watching them live from the terraces had gone with “The Mastermind!”. As young fans we also supported our teams but we had specific players we wanted to see. I remember after one match at Gwanzura Stadium, Dynamos played against Arcadia United. After the match had ended, some fans went away but the young ones gathered around the gate facing Mushandirapamwe Hotel. They waited patiently as the players showered and dressed up. One by one, they started coming out, Oliver Kateya, Sunday (Marimo) Chidzambwa, Kenneth Jere, Edward Katsvere, David Mandigora and the Arcadia players too like Reg Payne, Joey Antipas and Mike Abrahams. Still the fans waited. After about 30 minutes, Moses Chunga emerged and was greeted with loud cheers. He was mobbed and as he walked towards Machipisa Shopping Centre to get a lift home, a crowd followed behind him as if he was the biblical Moses going to part the Red Sea. This incident was revealing to me, it showed that Moses at that point was a major drawcard to the fans. Yes, they supported Dynamos, but they also wanted to be as close to “Mozi’’ as possible. To touch him if possible, to be in his vicinity and perchance to get the honour to carry his kit bag. Just as “The Mastermind’’ himself had helped to build the Dynamos fan base, I think Chunga contributed a few “millions” of fans to add to the much proclaimed “Seven Million” fan base! There are many players who were like this, players who made fans come to the stadium. They were crowd pullers and whenever they jogged onto the pitch, they received thunderous applause. At Highlanders players like Madinda Ndlovu, Titus Majola, Willard Mashinkila-Khumalo, Tito Paketh, Benjamin Nkonjera, Adam Ndlovu and Peter Ndlovu ensured that Barbourfields Stadium was packed to the roof. When Peter Ndlovu emerged as a mere 16-year-old, the excitement in Bulawayo and even at national level was unbelievable. We all wanted to see Peter and fans would make an effort to attend matches just to see him in person. For fans of that generation, no football experience would be complete without witnessing his exploits. When he became a professional player in England, his return on national duty ensured that ZIFA would be smiling all the way to the bank. With Peter in town, the stadium was bound to be packed. That was how popular he was. Each team had a major drawcard, players who fans looked forward to seeing. When visiting teams came to Gwanzura, as young fans, we made a date. If it was Eagles in town we looked forward to seeing Boy Ndlovu, if it was Gweru United, we all wanted to see Wonder Chaka, for Rio Tinto, Joseph Zulu had us flocking to the good old stadium, at Arcadia United we were enticed by the dribbling skills of Mike Abrahams and at Black Aces we all wanted to see Archieford Chimutanda, when he decided to play. I remember watching a match at Sakubva Stadium in Mutare. Tanganda was a great side packed with talent but everyone was talking about “Samaita’’ Lloyd Mutasa. Every time he killed the ball dead (he was one of the best at that), the crowd would rise in unison to salute him. Every time he let the ball roll between his legs performing his trademark dummy, leaving an opponent dead on his backside, the crowd would respond with “Samaita’’ or simply “Lodzaaa!!” His name on the team sheet contributed to the huge crowds which attended matches every weekend. In later generations, the trend continued. I know for example that for 10 or so matches, Evans Gwekwerere became the darling of Dynamos fans. He was so popular a song was composed in his honour, “Gwekwerere Bhora!!’’ Indeed, one article cannot do justice to the number of crowd pullers who graced our stadiums. Can I add that this was not only at the then Super League or the current Premiership level. There were such players even at grassroots levels and dare I say even in schools football but that is a discussion for another day. Of late the excitement about local players has died down. Recently there was excitement about Bill Antonio and hopefully he will continue to develop. I, however, do not think today’s young fans can wait for 30 minutes outside Gwanzura or Rufaro to see players emerge from the dressing room. Some of the young fans do not even know the local players. The lack of interest is concerning. What has caused this dissipation of interest in the local players and by extension the league? Some blame the poor quality of players. There are no new heroes emerging, they declare! Some blame foreign leagues, especially the English Premier League which has captured the hearts and minds of many fans here in Zimbabwe. Some blame the easy availability of satellite TV which has made access to foreign leagues available at our fingertips. I, however, think that we have simply forgotten how great we were and have neglected the basics which made us great. In the article, I have talked about Gwanzura and Rufaro. Even if fans want to follow local players, how can they do that when the two stadiums are in their current state. When we were young we waited by gate number one at Gwanzura to watch players emerge. That privilege is being denied the current generation because the stadium is in a state of dilapidation. Where are the City Fathers? Where is the football leadership? And let me bite the bullet and ask, where is the Government? Do we have the will to mend what has been broken? I do not think so and therein lies the tragedy! Football structures, especially the junior leagues, are being poorly run. Where therefore can we find crowd pullers in the mould of Peter Ndlovu, Moses Chunga, Tauya Murehwa, Joe Mugabe and Memory Mucherahowa, among others. These players were products of a well-planned junior development structure which allowed them to be the greats that they became. There is therefore a serious need to consider this. In the past the Media played a positive role to promote local players and by extension, local leagues. From Monday to Friday, the Sports Pages covered all the teams and most of the players. This helped to build up interest and fans came to see certain players due to the rave reviews from the Press. I remember when Zambian midfielder Derby Makinka was single-handedly being credited with Darryn T’s “survival charge. I was working outside Harare but after reading about Derby’s exploits, I decided to attend a match. My journey from Rusape was not wasted, I saw Derby in the flesh and he is one player who I can declare: “He came, He saw and He conquered!!” He conquered the hearts of many local football fans and he conquered Zimbabwean football. What a player! The Press should therefore play its role in promoting local players and leagues. Yes, in the past we had football dazzlers who dazzled our hearts. I often describe myself as a Shamboist because of Joel Shambo and I am sure there are many fans whose football experiences were shaped by the performances of certain players. Yes, we can rediscover this lost glory but our football focus must change. We have to rediscover our greatness and from the past we can draw a few lessons. This calls for total commitment!