The Herald Grace Chingoma–Senior Sports Reporter FORMER Warriors defender Charles Yohane, who will be buried this afternoon at Zororo Memorial Park, has been described by his former teammates as a gentle and quiet man who did not deserve a violent death. The 48-year-old footballer was shot and killed by carjackers on February 12 in Soweto, South Africa. His body was discovered two days later in Soweto. Yesterday, his body flew into the country ahead of his burial today. Yohane’s body was accompanied by his close friend and former footballer Innocent Chikoya, who was met at the Robert Gabriel International Airport by Yohane’s family, friends and former team-mates Alois Bunjira, Dumisani Mpofu and Ephraim Mazarura. Former Zimbabwean players, who are based in South Africa, bought a casket for Yohane. The body, which was received as cargo, was first taken to Doves Funeral Parlor. In fact, it was first taken around the three Harare stadia thus National Sports Stadium, Gwanzura and Rufaro in a procession, as the talented left-back made his final trip in the stadiums where he made his name for himself while playing for Fire Batteries, CAPS United and the Warriors. Family spokesperson, Musa Zahaya, said reality had hit them that their relative is no more after his body landed from South Africa yesterday. “It is painful. The reality first came when they held a funeral service for him in South Africa, and now he has arrived home so it’s true that he is no more and it is a tough time for the family.’’ A number of football fans paid their tribute to the legendary player. CAPS United provided their team bus which was part of the vehicles that carried supporters, who were passionately singing with some of the ladies clad in football kits, in a touching procession. Chikoya, who has been tirelessly working hard in South Africa together with the Yohane family and Zororo-Phumulani, who also assisted in the repatriation process, said it is sad that his long-time friend is no more. “It’s a huge loss to his colleagues and to the country. It’s a tragedy that at the present moment, it hasn’t sunk in. “I haven’t even shade a tear. I have seen him, I have seen his body and I didn’t attend the body viewing services because what I already saw is enough for me. It’s very painful to lose Charles because he was humble, patient and caring person. “Most people know how Charles was. To the family of Charles, the family has lost a rib which is painful. He was a father. He left three children, two girls and a boy. It’s a huge loss. For me, I’m devastated. “He was my friend for the past 27 years in South Africa. Imagine 27 years of friendship gone. We have played together in the national team. You can see how bad the loss is,” said Chikoya. The former Warriors centre-back Mpofu said during national team camps he shared a room with Yohane. The two players were part of the Warriors team that featured at the African Cup of Nations in Tunisia, in 2004. “I played with Charles for a very long time in the national team, and I think our caps are almost the same. “I am heartbroken. During national team camps, I shared a room with him. He was disciplined, he was a quiet person and at times, you would think he is not in the room when he would be there,” said Mpofu. Mpofu, who also played in South Africa for Umtata Bush Bucks, said the neighbouring country is not a safe place. “In South Africa, anything can happen. It is not safe in South Africa, and only God can protect you when you are in that country. “It is very unfortunate, imagine Charlie went to South Africa in 1996, he went before me, and if you look at all these years, he never encountered such an accident but one fateful day it was over,” said Mpofu. Another close friend of Yohane, Bunjira said the past weeks have been a nightmare for him. “All these past weeks we were just waiting, it felt like a dream but now it has become a reality… We were close,” said Bunjira. Bunjira said his friendship with the Yohane blossomed during their Under-17 days, and the defender was instrumental in bringing him to Wits in South Africa. Yohane is survived by two daughters and a son.