The Herald DAKAR. — The Senegalese President has rewarded the players of the national team with cash prizes and plots of land for winning the 2021 African Cup of Nations. President Macky Sall of Senegal awarded a special cash prize, prime real estate, and the country’s highest order to the men’s football team as the country continued to celebrate their victory in Sunday’s African Cup of Nations final against Egypt. President Sall announced that each player will be given a bonus of US$87 412 as well as 200 square-metre plot of land in the capital, Dakar. Senegal’s first win of the coveted trophy it has been chasing for 60 years has led to an outpouring of joy and celebrations since the 4-2 triumph in a penalty kick shoot-out. Tens of thousands lined the streets of the capital Dakar from early in the morning on Monday to await the arrival of the victorious team. A ticker-tape parade through the streets went into the early hours of Tuesday. Senegal came close to winning the trophy twice, losing to Algeria in the 2019 final and to Cameroon in the 2002 final. Hundreds lined the surrounding avenues and streets of the presidential palace in downtown Dakar on Tuesday evening for a reception to thank the players. Sall awarded the players Senegal’s highest order, making them Grand Officers of the National Order of the Lion. “In addition, as a token of gratitude, and on behalf of the nation, the players and other members of the official delegation will each receive a special bonus of 50 million franc CFA (US$87 412) and a 200 square metre plot of land in Dakar,” Sall said. He added that they would also receive a 500 square-metre plot for a commemorative estate in Diamniadio, a new futuristic economic and industrial hub around 45km from Dakar where a new national football stadium will be inaugurated on February 22. The Lions of Teranga won their first-ever AFCON title after beating seven-time champions Egypt on penalties on Sunday following a goalless draw in regulation and extra time. Sadio Mane was the hero as he scored the winning penalty in the shoot-out to make amends for his earlier miss during the game. Aliou Cisse’s side, therefore, sealed a 4-2 win on penalties after Mohamed Abdelmonem and Mohanad Lasheen missed their kicks. Thousands of fans welcomed the Lions back home after their triumph in Cameroon, as they paraded the trophy around Dakar. Meanwhile, President Sall had earlier declared Monday, February 7, 2022, as a national holiday after the country’s victory at the AFCON. — Reuters.