The Herald Business Reporter Lafarge Zimbabwe has resumed production at its cement mills that was disrupted since October last year following roof collapse at the cement maker’s Harare factory. The incident disrupted normal production, negatively affecting volumes and financial performance of the company in the last quarter of the firm’s trading period. “Further to the cautionary announcement dated January 6 2022, shareholders and members of the investing public are advised that following the roof collapse over the cement mills on October 11, 2021, the cement mills have since been restored back to normal. ‘‘There is, however, some work that is still ongoing to fully repair the roof,” Lafarge said in the statement. The Harare-based cement firm assured shareholders that the issue of the roof collapse would not continue to have an adverse impact on the company’s operations. The cement producer last year promised that all the mills would be back up in the second half of January, but it seems like the repairs took longer than anticipated. Lafarge in a statement in November said, ‘‘The cement milling operations have since stopped until the restoration of the roof is complete. It is currently expected that the mills will be back in production by the second half of January 2022.’’ However, Lafarge has warned on the potential impact of their the cautionary statement relating to potential disposal of the cement producer to a Chinese company, saying the development might have an impact on the company’s shares. “The company also advises shareholders and members of the investing public that further to the cautionary announcement dated 26 January 2022, there may be developments relating to the company, the full impact of which is currently being determined as it may have an effect on the company’s securities,” it added. In accordance with the cautionary statement, shareholders have been advised to exercise caution when dealing in the Company’s securities until a full announcement is made.