The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter BANKET United’s coach Paul “Popopo” Chimalizeni is confident that he will shoot down the high-flying Herentals Under-20 side when his side visit the capital for a ZIFA Northern Region Division One Soccer League match at Morris Depot today. Banket, who are getting better with each passing game, will come up against a Paul Benza-coached Herentals Under-20 side who are yet to taste defeat in the championship race this season. Chimalizeni, who is the more experienced over his namesake, is expecting his side to continue with last week’s form which saw them collecting their first set of maximum points by beating Cam and Motor 2-1. “I think we are coming to Harare with one intention which is win as no soldier goes to war expecting a defeat. I respect them as we are playing in the same league and they managed to utilise their chances which is good on their part. “The team is getting to where I want it to be considering it’s my first season (with them) and I have been working with the boys for the past few months. We need to maintain the momentum and continue picking up points,” said Chimalizeni. His foe today, Benza, said they are taking each game as it comes and are looking forward to the match. “We are in good form and we are looking forward to the game which we take as any other match. The games are coming in quick succession but we will remain focused on the work at hand,” Benza said. The other match will see a battle of Mashonaland West when Leo Kurauzvione’s Golden Valley take on Chegutu Pirates in a mid-day clash at Chakari before Cam and Motor entertain second-placed Golden Eagles in the late afternoon kick-off at the same venue. PAM United will return to Muriel Mine to face Black Mambas after last week’s hard fought 2-2 draw with Chegutu Pirates, who are now getting some financial backing from Norton-based businessman, Columbus Makumbe. Makumbe, a board member of former Premiership side Zimbabwe Saints, also used to bankroll the now-defunct ex-Northern Region Division One side Dorking from Concession where he had established his base before moving to Norton where he is financing Chegutu Pirates from. And with the help of Makumbe, Chegutu Pirates have since brought on board the experienced pair of Alois Matare and Isheunesu Wakatama from the now-defunct FC Mbare National and Cam and Motor respectively to strengthen their team. Coach Richard Chunga said they are looking forward to collecting maximum points against Golden Valley today after they failed to do so in last weekend’s home game against PAM United. “I think we will get it right this time around after we had to fight for a draw last weekend. The boys underrated our opponents and we were almost punished for that. “Playing against Golden Valley always comes with some excitement as the two sides enjoy good support at the venue,” said Chunga. Meanwhile, PAM United’s Austin Mashanda said they are ready for the match against Mambas and playing at home will give them an edge over John “Toto” Ncube’s police side. PAM United are quickly becoming draw specialist with five draws out of the seven matches they have played so far while “Warumwa Warumwa” are improving with each passing week. “The boys have been working on their shortcomings during the week and I hope we will come out with a positive result,” said Mashanda. ZIFA Northern Region Division One Fixtures Today: Golden Valley v Chegutu Pirates (Chakari 12pm), Cam and Motor v Golden Eagles (Chakari 3pm), PAM United v Black Mambas (Muriel Mine 3pm), Chinhoyi Stars v Simba Bhora (Chinhoyi), Harare City Cubs v Ngezi Platinum Under-20 (National Sports B Arena 3pm), Herentals Under-20 v Banket United (Morris Depot 12noon), Come Again v Trojan Stars (Pfupajena 3pm) Tomorrow: CUMA Academy v Commando Bullets (Chakari 3pm).