The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter CHICKEN Inn coach Joey ‘‘Mafero’’ Antipas says Dynamos have lost the invincibility that easily made them the most feared football team in the country during his playing days in the 1980s. Antipas, who featured in several battles against the Glamour Boys as a sprightly right back for Arcadia United, yesterday said he has always enjoyed the contests against the Harare giants as player and now as a coach. He was speaking ahead of the Castle Lager Premiership football clash between his side Chicken Inn and DeMbare set for tomorrow at the National Sports Stadium. The former Warriors coach said he was aware of the rebuilding efforts spearheaded by Dynamos coach Tonderai Ndiraya, which could present his Gamecocks with some problems in their quest to maintain a good start to the season.   But he reckons the opponents have changed a lot in the last four decades. “To be frank, the Dynamos that we have seen in these past few years is not the same with the Dynamos of old. Back in the day, it was always a special occasion to play against Dynamos when they were still Dynamos. You just knew you had to be on top of your game. “Dynamos then were a mean machine because of the quality in their side. They could attract just about all the best talent in the country. “Everyone would look forward to play against them because these were the kind of players that could really test your abilities,” said Antipas. “Of late, I think Dynamos have lost the sting that made them such a fearsome side. Back then, it was difficult to come out with a result against them because they were so dominant and they won many league titles. “Dynamos last showed signs of that kind of dominance with the team that won four league titles in succession under Callisto Pasuwa. Maybe it was because they had played together for longer. “But the efforts they are putting now cannot be ignored. They have done (some) good business during the current transfer window and they look a very competitive side. “We expect a tough encounter against them on Sunday. But football being football, it may need some time for them before they start gelling.” DeMbare have invested in eight new players, including three West Africans, during the January transfer window in the hope of turning around their fortunes this season. Antipas also relived some of the classic sub-plots, which saw him getting into raging battles against the likes of Edward “Madhobha” Katsvere, Gift “Ghetto” M’pariwa and Moses ‘‘Bambo’’ Chunga. “Moses Chunga was a constant threat to any team in the league. He was on top of his game before he left for Belgium. ‘Bambo’ was a player who could surprise you, he would shoot from anywhere and would win games single-handedly. “Then there were the Marimo (Chidzambwa) brothers Sunday and Misheck, Kenneth Jere, Hamid Dhana, David Mandigora and a lot more other guys. It was big motivation coming up against them and you did not need anyone to tell you that. “I think Eddie Katsvere was more difficult to play against whenever we played them. He was nimble-footed, highly skilled and had a bag full of tricks almost in every game. “You just didn’t know how to approach him because you never knew what he was going to do next. He would also create chances from the wing. He made good crosses into the box, looking for Gift ‘Ghetto’ M’pariwa to finish,” said Antipas. Arcadia United then were also teeming with talent which made their home ground Danny Bismarck an impregnable fortress. Apart from bringing together the community of Arcadia in support of their team with marked success in top-flight football, Arcadia United brought a competitive edge to the domestic game. “We also had a very good team. Talk of the likes of Reg Payne, Maxwell Joseph, Charlie Jones, Carlos Max, Mike ‘Mabhurugwa’ Abrahams, Bethal Salis and George ‘TnT’ Rollo, who was a prolific goal-getter and could explode any time with his ferocious shots,” said Antipas. Antipas is targeting to turn back the hands of time with Chicken Inn who he led to their only Castle Lager Premiership title in 2015.