The Herald Youth Interactive Writer Since the launch of the National Disability Policy by President Mnangagwa, many activists have emerged standing up for people living with disabilities. Elisha Gumbo is a 24 year-old Law student at the University of Zimbabwe and resides in Gokwe. The young man started his own movement, the Students with Disabilities Association of Zimbabwe, which aims to implement the terms of the National Disability Policy on behalf of students living with such conditions. “An imbalance in terms of opportunities, lack of key drives in the implementation of policies already enacted by the Government.” “To increase the number of educated persons with disabilities by providing support services and quality advisory counsels,’’ Elisha said The Students with Disabilities Association Of Zimbabwe seeks to try as much to engage with persons with Disabilities in remote or rural areas, since they are the most disadvantaged and marginalised as a result of lack of proper support. “Most people with disabilities have inferior complexity and less confidence so in this organization we aim to boost self confidence, offer them carrier guidance,” the youth said The organisation, started at the University of Zimbabwe aims to spread and go far beyond the University and Harare. Although this comes with a lost of hard work and financial expenses, Elijah and his team are well prepared to take on the load. “Financial support can be difficult to find but we hope to engage well wishers and try and empower students with disabilities economically so that they become self reliant and also contribute to the nations economy,” says Elijah. The University of Zimbabwe has a Vice Chancellor’s Scholarship that guarantees payment of all tuition and accommodation fees until one graduates from the college. Mr Gumbo hopes that, through the organisation, he will be able to engage other schools and colleges to offer the same support so that students with disabilities have the opportunity to go to other institutions they may want besides UZ. “As Students with Disabilities Association of Zimbabwe, we aim to fight for inclusiveness and fight against unfair elements and to ensure that at every institution tertiary or lower levels persons with Disabilities are catered for and adequate materials are provided.’’ The general public of Zimbabwe is called upon to assist people with disabilities with any possible means they can so as to emancipate them.