The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter FORMER Warriors manager Sharif Mussa believes more Zimbabweans are poised for the Confederation of African Football assignments as the duo of Xolisani Gwesela and him continue to acquit themselves well. Mussa and Gwesela are CAF General co-ordinators and have been receiving appointments to take charge of the continental body’s Champions League and Confederation Cup matches. The pair had initially been receiving appointments for some preliminary round matches. But they have gone a notch up with more group stages appointments coming their way. Just last week, Mussa was tasked with being the general co-ordinator of the Champions League Group B clash between South Africa’s AmaZulu and Horoya of Guinea. AmaZulu won the match 1-0 at Moses Mabhida to end their win-less start to the Group B stage. It is the Durban-based outfit’s maiden dance with the Champions League Group B stage, having dispatched Callisto Pasuwa’s Nyasa Big Bullets of Malawi in the second round. But for Mussa it was yet another dance with the group stage assignment, having taken charge of a Southern Africa derby tie between 2015 Champions Mamelodi Sundowns and Angola’s Petro Atletico. He also co-ordinated various assignments, including some interesting fixtures such as the encounter between perennial Egyptian campaigners and former champions Zamalek and Petro Atletico of Angola. Mussa was also happy to be back on continental duties. “As you know with Covid-19, some games were put on hold and there were also some complications with international travel but it just feels good to be back and doing my bit to ensure all the CAF assignments that I am given go on smoothly. “It is always an honour to be part of the African game as you know the Champions League is the biggest inter-club competition on our continent. “I am also happy to see my colleague Xolisani Gwesela getting some assignments. It shows that there is something right that we are doing and I think this can help open doors for more Zimbabweans to get some CAF appointments for the various games be it Confederation Cup, youth tournaments or the Women’s competitions,’’ Mussa said. At Moses Mabhida, Mussa also had another Zimbabwean with him — Emmanuel Mutunami — who is now a CAF security officer. Moses Mabhida will also be the venue of Gwesela’s next CAF assignment as he has been appointed the General Co-ordinator of the Champions League tie between AmaZulu and Algerian outfit ES Setif tomorrow night. Moroccan giants Raja Casablanca, who play Horoya later on the same night, lead the Group B standings with six points while AmaZulu and Setif have three each and Horoya are still to register a win. There are also strong indications that the country’s medical crew could be roped in as CAF Covid-19 compliance officers as the games continue to come thick and fast.