The Herald Gilbert Munetsi in LUSAKA, Zambia SHE’S done it!!! One of Zimbabwe’s top female boxers Kudakwashe “Take-Money” Chiwandire on Saturday night rose from being an underdog to pull off one of the biggest upsets in boxing history when she outclassed former world champion Cathrine Phiri (16-5-0; KO10) to be crowned the new World Boxing Council (WBC) interim super bantamweight champion. Chiwandire (26) adopts the legacy of having attained the highest level by a local boxer to date, surpassing achievements of other notable pugilists like the late Proud “Kilimanjaro” Chinembiri (former All-Africa heavyweight champion), Arifonso “Mosquito” Zvenyika (former Commonwealth champion) and, lately, Charles Manyuchi (past WBC silver champion). The latter’s record of at one time having won and successfully defended the WBC championship has been overshadowed by Chiwandire’s title which is a notch higher. “Take Money” is now eligible to challenge the world’s best boxer in her division for the gold. The WBC is rated the top-most global boxing sanction body and in boxing spheres, carrying their strap is akin to “royalty.” According to the scorecards released after the match, judge Lymedte Onam from Kenya scored the contest 92-98 and Thandi Ngodwame (South Africa) the same in favour of Chiwandire. It was Francis Chirwa, a Zambian official, who brewed a shocker and gave the fight to his compatriot, Phiri, at 96-94 in a glaring attempt to save face. However, his action caught the wrath of the match commissioner who had no kind words for him after the fight. WBC vice-president, Houcine Houichi Houicine, queried the verdict, arguing, instead, the Zimbabwean should have been declared winner by a unanimous decision as she virtually dominated the entirety of the contest. Fact, Saturday was an unforgettable night on which the poor-girl-makes-good lass from Manyene communal lands (Chikomba West) dared to take the tiger by the tail and execute a game-plan that has changed the boxing fortunes of a nation harbouring so much expectation on the sporting front. Ironically, she has made the achievement in a domestic environment that has yet to revisit a stumbling legal instrument and review it to recognise fighters of the female gender. And the sweet victory, posted in a foreign ring for that matter, will certainly alter the face of the sport of “sweet science” in the country and her life in general going forward. Neither the grand arrival of her opponent (a commissioned officer in the Air Force of Zambia) to the venue aboard a helicopter, the full house rooting for her, nor her colourful record of at one time having been a world champion, could deter Chiwandire’s focus and hunger to be crowned the new champion. Going into the fight at the Government Complex in Lusaka with a lean record that paled in the shadow of her opponent’s colourful one, Chiwandire — like young Khama in the infamous English Day by Day English Course series — exhibited the heart of a lion and (throughout the entire 10 rounds) was brave in the fight. The prophetic side of her, at a press conference preceding the fight, had foretold the outcome as she termed her foe “an expired boxer” and, in Muhammad Ali jibe fashion, boldly declared: “I respect her because she is a former WBC champion, but we cannot continue looking backwards when she used to do great things. This is now, I’m young and I am able to do anything to turn the tables. “I am not intimidated in any way and I am certain I will put my all to take the title. If I don’t win, its rather better that I die. If I die, I die (sic).” Fighting in front of a capacity Zambian crowd, Chiwandire dominated all the 10 rounds of the contest and according to WBC VP Houichi, displayed one of the best performances he has ever witnessed. He predicted she is destined for greater heights and would alter the face of boxing in the whole of the Sub-Saharan region. From the toll of the first bell right up to the final round, Chiwandire was on Phiri’s case, subjecting her to a thorough bashing that silenced the fully subscribed event whose crowd had come in anticipation of victory for their decorated, beloved boxer. It was evident from the very first round that Phiri would not bag the title. Chiwandire proved she had thoroughly done her homework and possessed excess endurance. She maintained the offensive, pushing Phiri backwards and punishing her each time she found an opening. It was no surprise Phiri would earn a swollen left eye as the rounds progressed. Buoyed by the presence of Zimbabwe’s Ambasador to Zambia, Charity Charamba, who had led her in prayer before taking to the ring, the 26-year-old was hell broken loose. She delivered stinging straight punches, bobbed and weaved and when she was sure she had accumulated enough points to be declared the winner, she could afford to show-boat in the final round. A good number of the fans, seeing the writing boldly inscribed on the wall, started making exit before the announcement of the results. Ambassador Charamba, who yesterday hosted a luncheon for the Zimbabwean boxing delegation, was full of praise for Chiwandire. “When I first saw Kuda enter the room where we had a briefing from the WBC vice-president, I was not sure she could make it because of her age. “But we prayed, together with her, and declared the win was going to come Zimbabwe’s way. “Fast forward to the ring and I was amazed that such a young soul could exude such huge volumes of confidence. She was aggressive all the way, kept on punching and punching . . . I even lost count of the times she did that.” The diplomat said the triumph was a plus for Zimbabwe, particularly with the new foreign policy on engagement and re-engagement that was obtaining under the leadership of President Emmerson Mnangagwa. “We certainly have to support the girl child. At just 26 and given all the support, we are certainly going to remain a permanent feature on the world boxing map,” she noted. The boxer’s trainer and manager, Clyde Musonda, said once back home and having taking a short break to re-energise, they would chart the next step forward for the new champion. Under his Delta Force boxing project, Musonda has over the past two years been instrumental in the bringing home of the World Boxing Organisation Africa titles by Peter Pambeni (featherweight) and Brendon Denes (welterweight). He has also coached Malawian Anisha Basheel, who later went on to win the WBC silver and Commonwealth titles. Chief director in the Ministry of Youth, Sport and Recreation, Benjamin Dube, and Zimbabwe National Boxing and Wrestling Control Board general secretary, Lawrence Zimbudzana, were some of the officials from the discipline who travelled for the fight.