The Herald Tadious Manyepo
Sports Reporter
FORGOTTEN ex-Dynamos’ Congolese striker Ngandu Mangala has joined army side Black Rhinos as the Premiership football club bids to patch up gaps left by the departure of several key players. Chauya Chipembere are virtually rebuilding after losing eight players during this window period. The Herbert “Jompano’’ Maruwa-coached team have lost their top marksman and 2021 Player of the Year, Tawanda Macheke, who has joined South African Premiership side Maritzburg United. Some of their star men, including Davison Marowa, Walter Sande, Edgar Mhungu, Simon Shanga, Tendai Ruziye and Simba Makoni, have left while veteran defender Bruce Homora is sidelined by a nasty knee injury. And Maruwa has moved swiftly to plug the gaps, bringing in some high-profile players led by Mangala. The Democratic Republic of Congo forward first announced his arrival in the local Premiership playing for giants Dynamos amid high expectations at a time the Glamour Boys were desperate for a saviour in 2019. But after netting twice in his debut in the opening game against the now-defunct Mushowani Stars, Mangala struggled to assert himself and was eventually let go by DeMbare coach Tonderai Ndiraya. The 27-year-old has been in Namibia where he has been playing for lower division teams. Rhinos coach, Maruwa, yesterday expressed confidence Mangala will solve some of his problems. “I have no doubt that Mangala will be a good addition to my team. I have lost several players and Tawanda Macheke, who has been leading from the front, has also left. So Mangala will be the man to try and solve the goal-scoring puzzle,” said Maruwa. “We all know what Mangala can do as a player and as a striker, in particular. “I am very confident he will add a lot of value in the team. “He still has the stamina, the speed and we have been seeing that he has what it takes to solve our problems at the front.” Besides Mangala, Black Rhinos have also signed another ex-Dynamos player, Peace Makaha, from Manica Diamonds on a two-year deal. Speaking to Black Rhinos on their Twitter handle, Makaha said he has decided to return to Harare to revive his career and help the army team win accolades. Maruwa has also taken aboard Denzel Mutudza and Joe Nyabinde, who is coming from Bulawayo Chiefs, and 2019 Northern Region Soccer League soccer star finalist Brighton Christopher from Black Mambas. Ageless striker Tawanda Nyamandwe, Godwin Goriyati, Paul Chiramba, Blessing Maunganidze and Stanley Murove are also on the verge of joining the army outfit while Lot Chiunga, who is coming from a long-term injury, is still under assessment.