The Herald Gilbert Munetsi Boxing Correspondent DOVES Zimbabwe, through their South African Zororo-Phumulani brand, have come to the rescue of female boxer Kudakwashe “Take Money’’ Chiwandire by providing her with air tickets to Zambia for the highly anticipated World Boxing Council (WBC) interim bantamweight world title fight against Catherine Phiri. The title fight is scheduled for this coming Saturday in Lusaka, Zambia. Chiwandire and her management team risked a long trip by bus to Lusaka, which could have been draining for the boxer ahead of the high profile fight. Following the publication of her plight by The Herald on Friday, the funeral insurance and repatriations firm quickly responded in support of the female pugilist and her crew. The news of the company’s intervention was broken on Saturday at a send-off ceremony at Harare Sports Club. The reigning Women International Boxing Association (WIBA) inter-continental champion, Chiwandire, faces the biggest test of her life against a former world champion (Phiri) in a 10-round contest at the New Government Complex in the Zambian capital. “As Zororo-Phumulani, powered by Doves Zimbabwe, we have answered to the pleas for help from the boxer’s management team who recently sent out a petition sourcing funds for the boxer’s travelling expenses to Zambia and back home. “The two power houses in the funeral and repatriations service industry have joined hands and will meet the full costs of Chiwandire’s trip and her management for the title match. “Competing for a WBC championship title is akin to competing for an Olympic gold medal or a tennis grand slam. This is a success story for our country and for that reason we thought it was noble to fly the boxer to Zambia,” said Zororo-Phumulani Marketing Manager, Tendai Mangoti, in a speech. Chiwandire leaves for Zambia tomorrow, and will take the four days at hand to acclimatise and help the promoter- Oriental Quarries Boxing Promotions — market the event. Doves Zimbabwe Marketing Manager, Joel Gombera, said contrary to the belief in the public domain that companies in the funeral business rejoiced when people died, they actually celebrated Zimbabwean success stories such as the one being penned by Chiwandire. This is not the first time that the company has come to the rescue of sport in general. They assisted in the burial of the late football legend, George “Mastermind’’ Shaya, and have also taken it upon themselves to help repatriate and lay to rest former Warrior defender, Charles Yohane, who was killed in South Africa last week. Meanwhile, Deltaforce Boxing Academy have unveiled a bout card for a tournament they wish to host in Harare on March 4. The Beatdown Bout Card: Ndodana Ncube v Yamikani Mkandawire (Super welterweight; 10 rnds) Brendon Denes v Kudakwache Banda (Super welterweight; 8 rnds) Patience Mastara v Lina Kasweka (Super bantamweight; 8 rnds) Tinashe Majoni v Yusuf Ali ( Super flyweight; 8 rnds) Enock Musambudzi v Trymore Musira (Middleweight; 8 rnds) Evans Husavihwevhu v Wongani Kainga (Lightweight; 8 rnds) Simon Madanhire v Noel Mpofu (Heavyweight; 6 rnds) Dwayne Dodzo v Lewis Nkhata (Middleweight; 4 rnds) Ardonia Abraham v Tranos Zihove (Welterweight; 6 rnds) Beaven Sibanda v Ephraim Dzingisai (Flyweight; 4 rnds) Almighty Moyo v Christopher Zhuwawu (Welterweight; 4 rnds)