The Herald Mariam Kwari Hello friends!  Welcome back to another edition of “Your health is your Wealth” with me, your favourite herbalist Nyasha. Remember to contact me so that we can talk herbs and most importantly Graviola. Without further delay, let us jump into today’s heavy weighing discussion. Headaches are the body’s way of letting you know something is wrong. A headache will let you know if you drank too much, ate too much; are constipated, stressed, tired, thirsty; need to get your eyesight checked ,or that your hormones are out of balance just to name a few. All in all we should be grateful for a headache because it serves as our alarm to pay attention and do something about it. Oh, My Aching head So how do you determine which factor is giving you a headache? Let’s start with the easiest first and then go to the more complicated. Most people who experience migraines opt for medication. But many are turning to natural therapies such as relaxation techniques and herbal remedies. Years before the introduction of modern medicine, cultures worldwide developed herbal remedies for headaches and other common migraine symptoms. Many of these herbal traditions have survived the passage of time. Although most herbal migraine remedies haven’t been thoroughly scientifically tested for their effectiveness, many are rapidly gaining the support of the modern medical community. Coriander seed (Coriandrum sativum) For over 7 000 years, people across cultures have used coriander seeds healing and seasoning properties. Coriander was lauded for its ability to treat ailments that ranged from allergies to diabetes to migraines. Traditional medicine used coriander to relieve sinus pressure and headaches by pouring hot water over the fresh seeds and inhaling the steam. Research on the seed’s medicinal effects is generally focused on its potential to treat arthritis and diabetes. More studies need to be conducted to determine if it’s useful as a remedy for migraine pain. However, coriander seeds anti-inflammatory potential may prove beneficial for some people with migraines. Lavender Oil Inhaling lavender oil during a migraine may help relieve symptoms quickly. To use lavender oil, breathe in the oil or apply a diluted solution to the temples. If you don’t dilute it properly, the oil may irritate the skin at the application site. Lavender oil can be toxic when taken orally at certain doses. Yarrow Yarrow has also been shown to have pain-relieving, anti-anxiety, and antimicrobial properties. Although more research is needed, the plant contains anti-inflammatory properties that may provide relief to people who experience headaches. Yarrow can be used in a variety of forms, including capsules and tinctures.  Well, here you go friends.  If these herbal remedies fail to work then please do not wait at home and try to brave it out. Make your way toward a medical practitioner so that they can carry out any further tests to identify what the problem really is. May God continue to bless you and your families. Until next time. 