The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter FC PLATINUM coach Norman Mapeza says he is still monitoring the transfer window as he hopes to strengthen his squad in the quest to defend the Castel Lager Premier Soccer League title. Mapeza, who trimmed his squad by releasing more than half a dozen senior players last month, has maintained satisfaction with the players at his disposal. The coach, however, told the media that he is still on the lookout for reinforcements ahead of the close of the transfer window on March 31. “I am more than happy. The signs are there that the team is growing and some of the guys who haven’t been playing some games before are showing the hunger that they also want to play football. “So that’s a positive or us. What is important is to have a competitive side. We don’t have to have only 11 players and a situation where we say if this one does not play among those 11 then we have some challenges. “We need everybody to get involved. For now, I am happy with the squad we have but as you are aware the window is going to close on March 31. So if we manage to get one or two players then we can still add on to what we have at the moment,” said Mapeza. Having dominated the domestic football scene for the past three years, and after winning the season opening Chibuku Super Cup, FC Platinum decided to part ways with a number of old horses. As a result, former Warriors midfielder Silas Songani, Stanley Ngala, Rahman Kutsanzira, Kelvin Madzongwe, Donald Ngoma, Rodwell Chinyengetere, Denzel Khumalo, Donald Dzvinyai and Ralph Kawondera were released during the current window. The platinum miners have adopted a new outlook this season with a host of young players like Thandolwenkosi Ngwenya, Oscar Bhebhe, Panashe Matimbanyoka, Kelvin Mangiza and Nigerian Onafide Abubakar, looking to drive their quest for a new club record. They also retained a few experienced players in the form of striker Donald Teguru, William Stima, Rainsome Pavari, Gift Bello, Brian Banda and goalkeeper Petros Mhari. Castle Lager Premiership Fixtures Saturday: Bulawayo Chiefs v Tenax (Luveve), ZPC Kariba v FC Platinum (Nyamhunga), Harare City v Cranborne Bullets (NSS), Black Rhinos v Triangle United (Sakubva), Ngezi Platinum v Yadah (Baobab) Tomorrow: Dynamos v Chicken Inn (NSS), Manica Diamonds v CAPS United (Sakubva), Whawha v Herentals (Ascot), Bulawayo City v Highlanders FC Platinum have signed a few players during the current window who include Juan Mutudza, Nigel Makumbe and Walter Musona who returned to Zvishavane after a stint in South Africa. FC Platinum have dominated the domestic football scene after winning the previous three league titles in succession. However, the platinum miners would need to up their game after managing only one point from the two games they played since the Premiership campaign resumed two weeks ago. They lost 1-2 to Bulawayo Chiefs before playing a goalless home draw against Dynamos last week. The two results dented their perfect start and have now dropped to fourth place with seven points from four games. Mapeza and his men have another tricky outing when they travel to ZPC Kariba this afternoon. “It’s not going to be easy for us. I think the last time we came back with a good result from Nyamhunga was 2016. But most of the times we have played for draws. I hope this time around we are going there to win the game,” said Mapeza. Midfielder Innocent Mucheneka is likely to miss the trip to Nyamhunga due to injury although he has been on recovery path and had started training with the rest of the team. Castle Lager Premiership Fixtures Saturday: Bulawayo Chiefs v Tenax (Luveve), ZPC Kariba v FC Platinum (Nyamhunga), Harare City v Cranborne Bullets (NSS), Black Rhinos v Triangle United (Sakubva), Ngezi Platinum v Yadah (Baobab) Tomorrow: Dynamos v Chicken Inn (NSS), Manica Diamonds v CAPS United (Sakubva), Whawha v Herentals (Ascot), Bulawayo City v Highlanders