The Herald Senior Arts Reporter France-based Zimbabwean writer Abel Mavura’s new book, “Never A Last Episode”, which addresses negative cultural beliefs that prevent individuals from attaining their dreams is getting endorsements abroad. The book, which becomes his third, is being praised by fellow authors. Romania-based author Christine Gallagher said it was a pleasure reading Mavura’s manuscript. “I had the pleasure to read another manuscript of the young author, Abel,” she said. “Never A Last Episode’’ is an enticing story beyond any reasonable doubt. “Although fictional, it remains inspirational, featuring a young man named Taku (Takudzwa) who strives to meet the expectations of his parents and those around him. “Later on he realises that his passion and calling are in a different direction. Many of us are fighting a relentless struggle between what society, family and friends expect of us against what we are striving to achieve in order to fulfil the purpose for which we were created. “As always, I read Abel’s book with enthusiasm and eagerness. I admire his work, both among and outside his books, and I am grateful for his friendship and trust,” she said. South Africa based Professor Norma Romm said: “When Abel requested that I pen a foreword for his book which he had written; I was not sure what to expect. “But knowing Abel as a humanitarian, academic researcher, writer and seasoned social justice advocate, I suggested he could indeed send me the book and I would take a look. “I met Abel through a UN-funded project called ‘Reinventing Democracy’ and I subsequently became acquainted with his work through his organisation in Zimbabwe, Marvel Act Youth Organisation — MAYO. “On receiving ‘Never A Last Episode’, I realised he has done remarkable work to write this inspiring story. His book surely gives us something to treasure. “In the context of real life, the word EPISODE can refer to a specific period in a person’s life. This is especially one that is a distinct, life-changing or defining experience. The book offers us a fictional narrative that makes the events in it real in the sense that readers can easily relate to it while learning from it. “The plot and choice of characters are sufficiently familiar for us to recognise, while also invoking us to think anew about our various relations and what is, in due course, important. ‘‘The book elucidates the point that life can never be a constant cycle, it is made up of many events and episodes. “The unique part of the novel is that it closes with key focus points which sums up the occasions that occurred in the story with key takeaways. It captures the positives and the negatives and gives the readers some provocative insights,” he added. Zimbabwean poet and blogger, Jurgen Namupira, who is based in South Africa said: “I guess knowing Abel Mavura as a person is an added advantage when it comes to relating with his work. “Mavura does not just write for the sake of it, he strives to paint a picture of reality in ABC. ‘Never A Last Episode’ does not only remind me of Abel Mavura, it opens my eyes to understand our daily lives. The book is a lecture in itself on common flaws. Abel takes us down the path that leads us back to a famous biased mentality. “I believe through this book many will be educated on the basics of life in the real world. “This mainly applies to the younger generation setting their paths towards career choices. Like the main character, Taku, many are pursuing foreign dreams because society does not allow them to dream on their own. Although it is a work of fiction, the story feels so real. “Kudos to Abel Mavura for this milestone achieved,” he said. Mavura said he was excited about the book’s endorsements. “I am impressed with the feedback and how some other authors and readers are giving me feedback,” he said. “I should have launched it in 2021, but due to Covid-19, I could not make it. “The book demystifies some cultural beliefs which prohibit progress in society and affect individuals from following their capabilities.” Mavura, who is also a development practitioner, began his career a decade ago by writing and directing plays for social change at his Marvel Act Youth Organisation (MAYO). He launched his debut motivational book in 2017 titled ‘‘The Art of Realising Your Dream’’, which was meant to inspire young people to realise their dreams despite the challenges they may face. Mavura was recently honoured with an award for civic leadership by Gumiguru for the work he has been doing through MAYO in Mutoko and surrounding districts. He was last year selected as one of the exhibiting authors from Southern Africa at the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation Africa week Authors Lounge in France.