The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Senior National Swimming Championships entered day four yesterday at Les Brown Pool with Harare on course to retaining the title after dominating most of the events. The championships that got underway on Thursday are running until today. By yesterday afternoon, Harare were leading, occupying the top spot, followed by Bulawayo on second place. Harare, who have had the upper hand in the national event over the years, continues to enjoy the dominance despite Bulawayo putting up a good show to challenge the hosts. Among the outstanding swimmers for Harare that have topped most of the events they competed in are Mikayla Makwabarara, Alexis Johnsen, Cory Werrett, Benjamin Rorke, Ryan Franceys and Limbikani Kalipengule. Some of the events Makwabarara won include the Girls 13 to 14 200m freestyle, 50m backstroke, the 100m butterfly, 100m freestyle and 50m breaststroke. Young Johnsen dominated the Girls 12 and Under. She came tops in a number of events including the 400m freestyle, 200m freestyle, 100m freestyle, 200m backstroke and 50m breaststroke events. Harare girls captain, Chinyere Mgbemena, said it’s not just about the province having the numbers, but they have top swimmers and that has seen the province dominating the national championships. “So far so good. It’s been tough but then as Harare team we are really trying our best and I feel because of the motivation we give each other we are actually doing really well. So, so far it’s really good. “Definitely, I really think that our team is very strong and I don’t think it’s just because of the numbers. It’s because the swimmers are generally strong-minded and strong in the water and they never give up. “And definitely I think that has gotten us to where we are now. So definitely we will win again because of that,” said Mgbemena. Bulawayo has had the likes of Tichatonga Makaya, Riana Rollo, Patrick Duff and Sibusiso Fayayo claiming top positions in a number of events. It was also a Harare -Bulawayo affair in the relays as the two provinces dominated the top three. Makaya said it has been an interesting experience. “To be honest it’s been a great experience, ups and downs but we continue. So far it’s been actually good, didn’t manage to get all the times that I want but we learn from the past experiences and we keep moving. “Tomorrow is the last day and I am just looking forward to getting over and done with, trying to get a good time for my butterfly which is my main event tomorrow,” said Makaya. Makaya had picked six individual medals by yesterday, and also assisted the Bulawayo team pick some medals in the relays. Matabeleland South and Mashonaland Country Districts were third and fourth while Manicaland were on fifth position. Mashonaland Country Districts chairperson, Louise Benade, is hoping their team finishes on a high today as the curtain comes down on the national meet. “Today (yesterday) has been our best day, so if we carry on like today, then we are very hopeful. We have had three individual podium placings and two relay placings on the podium,” said Benade.