The Herald Panashe Nyamudeza Securities and Exchange Commission of Zimbabwe (SecZim) chief executive officer (CEO) Tafadzwa Chinamo has retired from his post while Gerald Dzangare has taken over in an acting capacity with effect from February 1, 2022. Mr Chinamo, who served Zimbabwe’s capital markets regulator for 10 years, term of office ended on January 31, 2022. SecZim acting board chairperson Ethel Chitanda thanked Mr Chinamo for his service to the capital markets regulator, which saw him take the entity through its modernisation and automation projects. He also oversaw the adoption of modern market-wide infrastructure, resulting in increased participation of retail investors using internet-connected devices and cell phones. “Various capital market products were introduced over those years and these include REITS (real estate investment trusts), ETFs (exchange traded funds), the Alternative Trading Platform and the first online share trading platform C-Trade. “The first commodities exchange, the Zimbabwe Mercantile Exchange was also created during his tenure while the Victoria Falls Stock Exchange was also established as a new market player,” said Mrs Chitanda. During his tenure Mr Chinamo also served as chairman of CISNA, a SADC Committee of Insurance Securities and Non-Banking Authorities,  for a period of six years. Further, the former SecZim executive also supervised the membership of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) while at SecZim. Mrs Chitanda said the acting CEO had been with SecZim since its inception and had firmly contributed to the organisation’s development. “SecZim wishes Mr Dzangare the best in his journey as the acting CEO and urges capital markets, securities market intermediaries and stakeholders to provide their best support for him and his team,” she said. Similarly, the Tobacco Research Board (TRB), Zimbabwe’s leading agricultural research institution, announced the retirement of chief executive Dr Dahlia Garwe from March 2022 after years of service. She has been dedicated and loyal and will take up another position in Zimbabwe’s agricultural sector, but will remain in Kutsaga during the notice period preceding her new role. Dr Garwe joined the TRB as a Research Officer, engaged in various capacities leading to her appointment as TRB’s first female general manager in 2014. “Under her astute leadership, the parastatal not only retained its position as a leading centre of research on tobacco but went on to broaden its mandate to include alternate and alternative crops to tobacco in view of the global changes in the acceptance of the crop,” said TRB. The institution also remained largely self-funded with expanded revenue streams among them a million-dollar (US) commercial tissue culture facility. The entity extended its gratitude to Dr Garwe for her committed, professional and loyal service to TRB and Zimbabwe’s entire tobacco industry. Meanwhile, the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange (ZSE) listed seed company, Seed Co Group, has announced the appointment of Tineyi Chatiza as the group head corporate services and group company secretary with effect from February 1, 2022. Mr Chatiza joined the Seed Co in 2018 as head of corporate finance and has over 15 years of experience in various positions including accounting, company secretarial, taxation, capital markets, governance, compliance and risk management covering multi sectors. “He has been instrumental in several of Seed Co’s milestone capital markets transactions including the US$70,7 million technical-equity partnership with the Limagrain Group in 2013 and the unbundling and separate primary listing of Seed Co International on the Botswana Stock Exchange (BSE) and the secondary listing on the Victoria Stock Exchange (VFEX),” said group CEO Morgan Nzwere. He holds an Honours Bachelor’s Degree in Business Studies and qualified fully with the Institute of Bankers of Zimbabwe (IOBZ) as well as the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA). In addition, he is an associate member of the Institute of Risk Management of South Africa and he is a Public Accountant registered with the Public Accountants and Auditors Board of Zimbabwe.