The Herald Miriam Nyasha Kwari-Herbalist Hello friends, Welcome to another edition of “My Health is your Wealth” with me Nyasha, your favourite herbalist. Please feel free to give me a call whenever you need to talk herbal medicine. Remember to look for me as well so you can purchase Graviola juice which is an immune cleanser and booster. Are you underweight or under control? Being underweight can be frustrating for a person as being overweight is for the obese. If you have a problem with being too skinny, let’s take a look at some possibilities first; then I’ll give you some tips on eating, and then we will talk about some herbs and other supplements that can help you bulk up to your body’s capacity. People are underweight for different reasons, some based on inadequate self-perception. In other words you could be healthy but feel inadequate for some reason. Of course Herbs cannot change the perceptions you have about yourself. If you are seriously ill, you will probably not be eating much and may become severely underweight. You may also have an overactive thyroid, poor absorption, or other fixable problems. Find out from your physician if you are clinically underweight. Set goals for yourself. You will want to build muscle when gaining weight not unhealthy fat. Mental disturbances such as anorexia and bulimia must be addressed by a mental health professional. Now let’s take a look at some supplements that can beef you up. Spirulina: A weighty solution Spirulina, algae otherwise called food plankton, is particularly rich in protein. The rich chlorophyll content in spirulina helps build the blood and nourishes the body with minerals such as potassium, magnesium, selenium, zinc, iron, phosphorus, calcium and manganese . This protein rich food can help you build muscle as well . Take four capsules two to three times a day for weight building smoothie. Well here you go friends; I hope this helps you all. Continue to stay healthy and may God Bless you and your families. Miriam Nyasha Kwari/0773378571/ herbalmiraclesolutions@gmail.com