The Herald YAOUNDE. — Forget Mohamed Salah or Sadio Mane, because the most prolific strikers at this African Cup of Nations are the two players leading the attack for the hosts as they face Egypt in the semi-finals tonight. Kick-off is at 9pm. Cameroon captain Vincent Aboubakar is the tournament’s top marksman with six, while Karl Toko-Ekambi scored both goals for the Indomitable Lions in their 2-0 quarterfinal win over Gambia to move onto five altogether. Between them they have scored every one of Cameroon’s 11 goals so far at the Cup of Nations, the duo emerging as the key men five years after playing bit-part roles in the side that won the title in Gabon. In 2017 both were used almost exclusively from the bench, although Aboubakar came on as a substitute to score the winner in the final against Egypt. “In 2017 I played a bit less but still helped the others in training and during games,” recalled Toko-Ekambi after his match-winning display in the quarter-finals. “Now the roles are reversed and it is the same for Aboubakar too, although the main thing is that the squad gets on well together, that we play well and that we win.” It would be grossly unfair to reduce Cameroon’s success so far solely to the two forwards, with Collins Fai starring at right-back and midfielders Andre-Frank Zambo Anguissa and Martin Hongla both outstanding. “They are the finishers but their goals are the result of the work put in by everyone,” says the coach, Toni Conceicao. Aboubakar is a star throughout Cameroon, albeit he may never be worshipped in the same way Roger Milla or Samuel Eto’o were before him. However he is certainly a hero in his native Garoua, the main city in the north of the country. “Before Aboubakar people didn’t really believe that the region might produce a top player, but now youngsters look at him and say to themselves that anything is possible,” said Djibrilla Kada, who runs the youth academy at Garoua club Cotonsport, Cameroon’s leading side. “He is a role model for all the young players at the club.” Aboubakar grew up in a working-class neighbourhood described by his brother, Michel Dior, as “a place with a bad reputation”. “Vincent was not like us, going out, spending his money. Cotonsport saw his potential right away,” he said. Cotonsport are the only professional club in the north, financed by the insurance company of the workers of cotton company Sodecoton, the main employer in northern Cameroon. “Aboubakar is the best ambassador for the club, a product of our youth academy. We are now looking to develop partnerships with foreign clubs,” says Fernand Sadou, Cotonsport’s president. Aboubakar started banging in the goals there when he was 17 and was still a teenager when he was called up to the Cameroon squad for the 2010 World Cup. After a spell in France, he went to Porto. Still just 30, he recently left Europe to go and play in Saudi Arabia for Al-Nassr. But his first coach believes he may soon end up back in Europe. “He has been one of the best players at the tournament. I think big European clubs will come in for him now, and he deserves it,” says Kada. Toko-Ekambi, meanwhile, is among the players born and raised in Europe but with Cameroonian heritage. Now 29, he grew up in Paris in a Cameroonian family. Almost lost to football after suffering a knee injury as a teenager, he was a member of a rap group before returning to the sport and working his way up through the French leagues. After a spell at Villarreal in Spain, he moved two years ago to Lyon, where he has sometimes struggled to win over the doubters. Nobody doubts him in Cameroon now though, as Toko-Ekambi and Aboubakar look to fire the Indomitable Lions to their sixth AFCON crown. Meanwhile, Egypt defender Ahmed Hegazi will miss the rest of the Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon after sustaining an adductor muscle strain. The former West Brom centre-back was replaced at half-time by Mahmoud Trezeguet in Egypt’s quarter-final win over Morocco. The 31-year-old will fly to Germany to receive treatment. Mohamed Salah-captained Egypt face a “third final before the final” this week when they confront hosts Cameroon in an Africa Cup of Nations semi-final in Yaounde tonight. “We overcame the Ivory Coast and Morocco in what amounted to finals before the final and now we face another one against Cameroon,” said Mozambique-born Egypt coach Carlos Queiroz. While Liverpool star Salah and his Pharaoh teammates have been battling fellow top-10 ranked teams in the knockout stages of the marquee African tournament, Cameroon had a gentler passage. They defeated the Comoros, who had to use an outfield player between the posts after Covid-19 and injury sidelined their three goalkeepers, then Gambia, the lowest ranked of the 24 teams at the finals. Cameroon sharpshooters Aboubakar (six) and  Toko-Ekambi (five) are the leading scorers in this Cup of Nations, having bagged between them all 11 goals scored by the Indomitable Lions. Egypt have particularly painful memories of Aboubakar, whose late goal gave Cameroon a come-from-behind 2-1 triumph in the 2017 final in Libreville. The Saudi Arabia-based goalmouth predator drew a blank against Gambia, but was denied a hat-trick by two close shaves and a header striking the chest of Gambian goalkeeper Baboucarr Gaye. Lyon forward Toko-Ekambi, one of many Cup of Nations stars with African roots born in Europe, came to the rescue by netting twice in seven minutes. Now they face the defence of record seven-time champions Egypt, a country renowned for rearguard strength both at national team and club levels. A major concern for Egypt, though, is that they may have to field third-choice goalkeeper Mohamed Sobhy as Mohamed Elshenawy and Mohamed Abougabal had to retire injured against the Ivorians and Moroccans. At the other end of the pitch, there is the menace posed by two-time African Footballer of the Year Salah, who debuted for his country in 2011, a year after they last conquered Africa by beating Ghana. After a slow start in Cameroon, Salah led by example against Morocco, equalising and then setting up the extra-time winner for fellow Premier League forward Mahmoud Trezeguet. —AFP.