The Herald Ruth Butaumocho Managing Editor Sungura maestro Alick Macheso received a standing ovation following a flawless performance at the Theatre in the Park in Harare on Friday night. Probably his first big show in the capital following a long hiatus owing to Covid-19, which imposed a blanket ban on major gatherings, Macheso delivered a short, but polished show. Macheso’s show, clearly defined by well-choreographed act from his dancers, a well-thought out discography of both old and new hits, which was ably supported by an enthusiastic crowd, lived up to his fan’s expectations. The show that had been billed to start at 6pm, only kicked off an hour later. When he got on stage, Macheso wasted no time and started churning out timeless hits that included “Mwari weNyasha”, “Tafadzwa” and “Chikwambo”. For a man known for high-octane and interactive shows, Macheso did not struggle to entertain the small, but appreciative crowd, whose numbers could have been defined by the small and confined venue, as well as Covid-19 protocols. Instead , Macheso used the numerical deficiency to his advantage, creating dialogue between himself and his fans through the selection of songs, inviting fans on stage and allowing upcoming artists to play a few of their songs during the show. Muchapedza Matsito Junior, who is son to the late musician Tedius Matsito, and Paul Mpofu Junior, had brief stints on the stage with the assistance of the sungura maestro who had to strum the guitar in show of solidarity . For many, the highlight of the gig was when he played the song “Nguva Yekutenda”, taken off the album “Zvinoda Kutendwa”, where he did several renditions of most local musicians, who are now late. Being a lyricist of repute, and a seasoned performer, Macheso beautifully  executed a medley of songs, switching flawlessly from one genre to the other with ease, much to the excitement of his fans. While still playing “Nguva Yekutenda”, Macheso and his band immediately switched to the late Tongai Moyo’s timeless classic, “Zvinoita Murudo”. With the fans singing along and clapping in appreciation, Macheso changed the tempo and switched to Paul Mpofu’s “Murambinda”. The tempo moved a gear higher, when Macheso played the late Tedious Matsito’s “Nyaradzo”, the late John Chibadura’s “Mukadzi Wamakandiroorera”, before rounding off the act with a song from the late Simon Chimbetu. Though diminutive in stature, Macheso has a powerful voice, energy on stage and a unique ability to read and connect with his audience. His sing-along songs also have the power to enthral fans. The song “Charakupa” signalled the end of the show around 1030pm.