The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter HERENTALS Under-20 side have managed to keep their momentum in the ZIFA Northern Region Division One Soccer League championship race after beating  Karoi United 2-0 at Chikangwe Stadium on Saturday. Herentals Under-20 are leading the race with 19 points from seven games after winning six games and drawing one. Joel Luphahla-coached Golden Eagles are on second place after they also managed to collect maximum points against visiting Chinhoyi Stars who they hammered 4-1 and are three points behind the leaders after playing the same number of games. The Students, who are under the guidance of Paul Benza, are making progress considering that the team has been on a rebuilding exercise as most of their players graduated to the senior side which is in the Premier League. Other title hopefuls, Simba Bhora, also managed to keep pace with the leading pack by winning their weekend fixture to take their points tally to 15. Police outfit Black Mambas moved into the top four after a 1-0 win over Come Again at Morris Depot on the same day. The win ensured that the John “Toto” Ncube-coached side have not lost in their last three games. A solitary strike from Norbert Zimuto in the first half was enough to get maximum points for Black Mambas. “Warumwa Warumwa” had struggled in the opening games of the season where they suffered three defeats but Ncube is now confident that they will be in the title race. “I think we have now gained the much-needed confidence and the players now have faith in themselves. We have lost most of our players as 16 of them have since moved to other clubs and the average age of my team is now 23 years so I look forward to a top four finish then we start preparing for challenging for the championship. “After last week’s draw it is encouraging to bounce back to winning ways,” said Ncube. Chegutu Pirates were back to their controversial tendencies as their supporters forced a 15-minute stoppage in their 2-2 draw with PAM United. PAM United coach, Austin Mashanda, said what transpired at Pfupajena on Saturday should be condemned. “It was a good game but as Pfupajena has always been associated with violence we don’t encourage the way their supporters behave,” said Mashanda. Goals from Tinotenda Munengani in the first half was complimented by Andrew Kanchwanchwa for PAM United while Pirates got their goals from Lewis Milanzi and Raphael Manuvire. ZIFA Northern Region Division One Soccer League Results Golden Eagles 4, Chinhoyi Stars 1; Simba Bhora 5, Golden Valley 1; Chegutu Pirates 2, PAM United 2; Black Mambas 1, Come Again 0; Harare City Cubs 2, CUMA Academy 2; Karoi United 0, Herentals Under-20 2; Banket United 2, Cam and Motor 1; Ngezi Platinum Under-20 2, Trojan Stars 1.