The Herald Business Reporter How Mine says it has started reaping the benefits of its  US$5 million investment in a shaft sinking project after full year gold production jumped 59 percent to 30 381 ounces. Managing director Mr Kimpton Chihota said, “Our gold output increased by 59 percent compared to the previous year. “This improved performance is on the back of a capital injection of US$5m for the shaft sinking project, which opened up new mining areas.” The mine’s full year production of 30 381 ounces of gold in 2021, beats the mine’s projection for the year. “This project was commissioned in the last quarter of 2020. The mine is currently carrying out exploration, both on surface and underground, in order to open up the resource base for expansion,” he added. Mr Chihota revealed this at a certificate handover ceremony where How Mine was being certified by Standards Association of Zimbabwe (SAZ) for global standards. The mine obtained the certification for successfully using internationally recognised management procedures. SAZ director-general Eve Gadzikwa said the company was being recognised for its commitment to ensure safety of its workers and the environment. “This important milestone underlines the determination and commitment of management and staff in safeguarding the health and safety of staff and stakeholders by protecting the environment,” she said. “With the ever-changing legal and safety requirements impinging on co-operatives today, it makes good business sense to ensure that an organisation implements international standards to support every aspect of business.” Speaking during the same occasion Mr Chihota said, “We remain focused on contributing towards the Government’s target of a US$12 billion mining industry by the year 2023.” The company received recognition for successfully implementing internationally-recognised management systems, ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 9001:2015. “What we are witnessing here today is a business that has reached some of the highest principles expected of businesses in the modern world. “It means that, today, Bulawayo Mining Company is committing itself to the highest standards in its operations and in its service to the community, and to our country,” Mr Chihota said. The mine started with the implementation of the ISO 14001:2004 environmental management system, which was a commitment to the highest standards in managing and protecting the environment. It also implemented the globally renowned behaviour-based safety programme, which led to a massive drop in annual injury numbers by 60 percent at the mine.