The Herald Miriam Nyasha Kwari Herbalist Hello friends. Welcome to another edition “Your health is your wealth” with me, your favourite herbalist Nyasha. It is important for us to stay cautious and always wear our masks in this time of Covid-19. Remember to give me a call and talk herbal medicines with me. With that said, you should also come by and grab Graviola juice to ensure that your system remains strong and healthy. Flu (Influenza): A flu good herbs Unfortunately, there is no real medical treatment for the flu or colds because they are usually caused by a virus. Antibiotics kill bacteria, not viruses. The best way to deal with the flu, therefore, is to help the symptoms fast forward. Herbs can be a catalyst to your recovery from the flu and can help you from getting complications associated with the flu. And, if taken after exposure to infected person these herbs might just help you bypass the flu altogether. Here are some herbs that are sure to blow your flu away Thyme: Contains essential oils and bitter compounds. These are thought to contribute to its antiseptic and immune supporting actions. The leaves of thyme are warming to the body and specifically stimulate the lungs. Thyme is traditionally used to expel mucous from the lungs and relieve congestion. It is an effective cough suppressant — the  reason why it is included in many cough syrups. Cayenne Pepper: Cayenne is used to enhance circulation, increase appetite, aid digestion, improve energy levels, clear sinuses, induce skin-cooling sweats in hot conditions and warm up in cold conditions. It can also be used topically as a counter-irritant, bringing blood to the surface of the skin to relieve arthritis. Ginger:  Ginger is best known for its effect on the digestive tract and its ability to calm upset stomachs, relieve nausea and indigestion, and stimulate the digestive tract and aid indigestion. However, it can also be used topically as a counter-irritant, it has been known to increase circulation and alleviate cold and flu symptoms by clearing sinuses and inducing perspiration for fevers. Peppermint: Its used to treat a variety of digestive tract ailments. It relieves gas and stomach cramping, encourages bile production to aid in digestion and helps decrease nausea and vomiting. It can also be used to induce sweating and clam and encourage wakefulness when ingested. Topically, it can relieve pain, relax muscles and relieve itching and achy muscles. Additionally, peppermint has antiseptic properties. Well here you go friends. Make sure you give me a call so I can help you help yourself with Graviola juice which is an essential immune booster and system cleanser . Not only will it help you get rid of that flu but ensure that you stay healthy always. God bless you and your families. Until next time. Miriam Nyasha Kwari/0773378571/ herbalmiraclesolutions@gmail.com