The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Prisons and Correctional Services Commissioner General, Moses Chihobvu, said sports plays a major role for the inmates therefore should be taken seriously Chihobvu said this in a speech which was read on his behalf by ZPCS Assistant Commissioner, George Mutimbanyoka, when the Zimbabwe Chess Federation honoured their pledge to the Zimbabwe prisons chess team which won a silver medal in the first edition of the Inter-continental in-mates virtual chess tournament by giving them some hampers at Harare Central Prison yesterday. “I am glad to note that the International Chess Federation (FIDE) invited Zimbabwe to represent the whole of Africa in the first ever FIDE Intercontinental Online Chess Championship for Prisoners. Given this development, I am also glad to note that in spite of Zimbabwe being regarded as the least among the most feared chess powerhouses from Europe and Asia; as well as North and South America, it competed quite well amongst the World’s best chess players. “True to their ability, talent, skillful manoeuvres and deft touches, the inmates did not disappoint in that they managed to win a number of games that pushed them up to the tournament’s finals,” said Chihobvu. The occasion was graced by the Zimbabwe Chess Federation officials and their partners Minerva and Eden Insights. ZCF president Collin Tongowona handed out hampers and toiletries to the inmates. The Zimbabwe Prisons chess team won a silver medal in the tournament that featured 31 countries and 40 teams; and Zimbabwe was represented by Aleck Mushowani, Desmond Marufu, Leo Matibe and Nhamo Matemamombe who saw off challenges from the United States, Netherlands, Russia and Sweden, among others. ZCF have always partnered with ZPSC as they also hold the Behind the Walls chess tournament during the Easter holidays where several prisoners meet and play the sport. ZFC president Tongowona said they are happy to have presented the players with the hampers which they had waited for a long time. “We are happy to have presented the prizes for players who took part in the inaugural inter-continental inmates’ virtual chess tournament. The players did us proud as we managed to beat some very good chess playing nations who has some grandmasters,” he said. Zimbabwe, who were the only African team, were the underdogs but pulled through to reach the finals where they lost 4,5-3,5, to Mongolia.