The Herald Several companies have come to the rescue of Mike Lungu, a Chitungwiza student who walks to and from town to University of Zimbabwe to attend lectures.  Mike Lungu faced the possibility of being out of the university studies, because of financial challenges, until a businessman, Alex Mashamhanda, of Mashwede Holdings, bailed him out.  He appreciates the scholarship he got from Mashwede, but a plethora of challenges in the first year at college hit him hard.  Lungu scored 13 points in his Advanced Level examinations after just nine months of studying, instead of the two years, which other students usually take to sit for the examinations.  His parents didn’t have money for him to study for two years.  Circumstances beyond his reach have put him in such a predicament. He wrote A Level exams in nine months to cut short the time since his parents were facing financial challenges to help finish his studies.  Since the story was in media, there has been an overwhelming response from different stakeholders and individuals.  “I have been given a sponsorship for a residence at the university until I finish the degree for the remaining three years starting from this next semester in March by a well-wisher.  “Moreover someone from US has pledge to give me US$50 every month to help me further my studies,” said Lungu.  “The woman sent her daughter at UZ campus and I have received the money. Another benefactor from Avondale has given US$50 to help me as well.  “She further went on to say that she will buy a new cellphone fto ease communication.  “Another individual, a Zimbabwean citizen based in the United State,s has pledged to give me US$20 per month for academic purposes. Someone from Costa Rica said she will give money for food and transport.  “I am really humbled by the support I have got from these well-wishers.  “May the good Lord bless abundantly them, I am really indebted to them for their generosity,” he told Youth Interactive.  Despite all the challenges, Lungu has not lost focus.  “My educational mind works well as l broke a national record for A Level. The assistance will eliminate these challenges which hinder me from performing in my education.  “My performance is quite well. I have managed to settle in well since l commenced university and have been commended by Professor Matambirofa and my colleagues whom l learn with.  “I have managed to write a book based on Zimbabwe history, but l have not yet published it due to lack of finance.  “I am looking forward to accomplish another programme in journalism if possible since I am doing political science and diplomacy  which is not challenging much.  “Due to my academic performance l have managed to be in top 10 on a law module in my department,” added Lungu.  He studies all night and wakes up early in the morning going to school.  “I proceed to get a bus to Manyame 24-hour hospital which is far from home.  “At times the transport from Chitungwiza to reach Charge office is US$1,50,  which at times l can’t afford.  “What about arriving from the city to Mt Pleasant whilst the lectures commence  strictly at 8am.  “Upon reaching Charge Office bus terminus, I travelled on foot to campus and was  late for lectures.  “To get home, I used the same strategy after lectures and started walking from 4pm.  “I waited until l got cheap transport. Mostly I reached home around 9pm or to 10pm yet lectures would have end 4pm,” he added.  Lungu’s determination and leadership qualities ahave not gone unnoticed.  “l have been appointed president for Academic Freedom Fighters Union (AFFU), a student’s union at UZ.  “All I have maintained is hope and l thank my mentor Latwell Nyangu and Prof Matambirofa for such their assistance.  “Drs Hofisi and Kurebwa are witnesses to my participation in class.”  The political science student doesn’t consider food as a priority.  “Most certainly, when talking about my situation, food is a pleasure.  “It is similar to wanting to board an aeroplane when you can’t afford a ZUPCO bus.  “I eat in the morning and evening at home unless someone gives something at campus.  “Water is my breakfast and lunch. I believe in education as a tool which transforms life and changes circumstance.  “My plea is to have a laptop to make college life easier.  “I am pleading with well-wishers to assist me to have accommodation at college or near campus.  “I also want a part time job to earn a few dollars to assist myself.  “l wrote my Advanced Level in nine months to differentiate myself from my contemporaries, but challenges have remained part and parcel of my life.”