The Herald Business Reporter The Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA), through Zimbabwe National Convention Bureau, has made remarkable strides in promoting Meetings, Incentives, Travel, Conferences and Exhibitions (MICE) tourism after it secured the right to become a member of The Global Association of the Exhibition Industry (UFI). The country joins other leading African countries on this strategically important global stage, namely Rwanda and South Africa, with the UFI accreditation for exhibitions. ZTA acting chief executive Givemore Chidzidzi confirmed the development “We’re excited about this new international membership with UFI which is the leading global association of the world’s trade show organisers, convention bureaus, exhibition centre operators, as well as major national and international exhibition associations, and selected partners of the exhibition industry,” he said. UFI’s main goal is to represent, promote and support the business interests of it’s members and the exhibitions industry. It has a global membership of about 50 000 exhibition industry partners globally. More than 913 UFI approved (international) exhibitions proudly bear the UFI approved label, a quality guarantee for visitors and exhibitors alike. As such, Zimbabwe will soon be visible on this international platform due to its new membership status. “We are pleased that our national exhibitions will soon feature on the UFI brand, attracting the much-needed attendance from our source markets and beyond,” Mr Chidzidzi added. This membership was endorsed by over 77 associate members (also referred to as partners of the industry) representing different countries world over, a testimony to the confidence in the country’s preferred destination status, which is in line with Zimbabwe’s National Tourism and Growth Recovery Strategy. The MICE industry, which has been identified as key in tourism recovery, thrives on international memberships as these give access to international events that can be attracted into the destination, translating into international arrivals. UFI continues to bring together destinations through various dialogues and interactive regional chapter sessions. The platforms for engagements and collaborations are plentiful for members of UFI as re-engagements are key to reviving the country’s tourism sector following the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Let me hasten to say that this membership will also largely benefit the exhibition industry, such as professional exhibition organizers, exhibition venues and suppliers who are interested in creating more visibility for their businesses on the international platform. “We call upon this industry to work with us and ride on our membership as UFI provides exhibition organizers that meet the highest global standards with reliable, up to-date statistics, international guiding practices and experiences which allows for members to be constantly abreast with changing trends and challenges that are affecting the exhibition industry globally,” he added. Zimbabwe continues to make efforts in attracting leading exhibitions into the country. The country’s tourism membership comes at an opportune time when travel restrictions have been lifted across the globe. This will further support marketing initiatives such as the recently launched Meet In Zim Campaign which is meant to spearhead the destination’s promotional activities.