The Herald Kudzaishe Muhamba Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Women’s Rugby Lady Academy Sevens team yesterday embarked on a training camp in South Africa where they are scheduled to take part in the Hermanus Sevens tournament in Cape Town. The tournament, which also features South African women’s sevens teams – SA Gold and SA Green – is being used by the Lady Cheetahs as part of their preparations for the women’s African Cup Sevens to be held in Tunisia at the end of April. Speaking at the farewell ceremony hosted by Restaurant Lugar de Pollo on Wednesday evening, Lady Cheetahs captain, Margaret Magwaro, said that they were all geared up for the two-day tournament that begins today at the Mount Pleasant Sports in Cape Town. “This is part of the preparations for the Africa Cup tournament that we are going to play at the end of April. “We are travelling to Cape Town and I am happy we are going to have some playing opportunities before we get to the Africa Cup,” she said. The Zimbabwe women’s sevens team qualified for the women’s Africa Cup Sevens which will be held in Tunisia at the end of April when they won all their four matches at the pre-qualifiers held in Maseru, Lesotho, recently. Traverze Travel also hosted the team for cakes and drinks to celebrate their victory in the pre-qualifier tournament. The Africa Cup Sevens is much more competitive as they are going to clash with some of the continent’s best rugby nations like South Africa, Kenya, Madagascar and Uganda. “It’s hard to actually promise anything because you never know what the other countries are going to come up with. “All we can say is we have been preparing. We have been working extra hard as a team. The coaches, the union and the sponsors are supporting us,” she said. She added the Lady Cheetahs would represent the country to the best they can on the continent. “The team is quite strong. I am confident that we can achieve the goal that we have set as a team and we will try and make the country proud.” Above all, Magwaro said player welfare issues were key for the team to perform well. “For us to perform well, player welfare is key. If our players are treated well and have all that they need for training even at home, it’s easier for us to put 100 percent effort in playing. “We are in good shape and we are actually prepared for the task ahead of us. I believe we can actually go far as women, not only in rugby but in sports in general,” she said. The travelling squad: Margaret Magwaro, Lindiwe Munerenyu, Chiwoniso Mabika, Gladys Mukome, Rumbidzai Chiguvare, Delight Mukomondo, Precious Marange, Robyn Mhembere, Precious Chirinda, Stella Chikowore, Munashe Kudzunga, Linia Matenga