The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Lifestyle Writer Hello February, the month of love. In the fashion world we say the month of red and white because of Valentine’s Day. Well, we will dwell much on that from next week, but for now we are still continuing with office wear and the fashion trendy news. Like some are saying, we should be ever so lucky that Barbados-bred fashionista and musician Rihanna takes her style and fashion sense so seriously, that she would buck convention and do a street style photoshoot to announce her pregnancy. It is fitting, really, since New York Fashion Week starts in less than two weeks and fashion fans will arrive in the city, doing the most with their street style. And with everybody still wearing their lounge wear and doing all they can to hide the weight gain from the past two years, Rihanna has shown them you can be fabulous no matter your weight or body size. Rihanna decided to go back decades to find the perfect pregnancy reveal outfit. She wore a silk puffer parka from the Chanel AW 1996 collection, which was showcased in 1995 in Paris. Rihanna would have been seven or eight years old when this garment was first presented on the runway. She layered jewellery all over her torso also from Chanel and her favourite Christian Lacroix Paris Couture Heart Crystal Cross pendant brooch. The singer and CFDA Style Icon winner, has bucked the trend many times and the world went crazy with that. Talking about social media, it was on some of the fashion buffs timeline, celebrating the pregnancy and the fashion trend. Still on the topical issues, the organisers for the inaugural Zimbabwe Fashion Awards dubbed “Style Icon Zimbabwe Awards” (SIZA) announced the nominees on Wednesday and there were mixed feelings from some fashionistas. You know in the fashion world, everyone would say I am the best. The event is scheduled to take place next week at the Rainbow Towers celebrating icons in the industry. Yours Truly has been nominated in the Best Dressed Media Personality category. We congratulate all the nominees and look forward to the red carpet. Back to the fashion closet, award winner fashion brand 4May International also announced that this year they are pushing the corporate brands, making sure they are dressing the part and point. A month ago they guided us on how to dress for work and we received a lot of feedback with some even asking the correct shirts to wear for work. Well, according to 4May International, every man’s wardrobe should be packed with the best men’s shirts, period. Here’s the scoop: T-shirts don’t always have to be used as under shirts, and polos don’t have to strictly be worn on the golf course. Nowadays, the type of shirt you wear can say a lot about your mood and style. If you’re the type of guy who sticks to a strict uniform of t-shirt, jeans, and leather sneakers, it might suggest that you care about what you look like, but still want to feel casual and aren’t too concerned with trends. Or maybe you are the kind of person who likes to look a bit sharper, so your go-to outfit might be a polo or oxford shirt with a sleek pair of pants. Either way, you should probably have a range of shirt styles in your wardrobe from different brands for different occasions and when the mood strikes. Here are quick guides on some of the best shirts to keep you cool, stylish, and comfortable no matter what season. ◆ If you hate wearing coats, especially in winter, the flannel is probably your best option for a shirt. They make you look like you put a lot of thought and effort into your outfit while keeping you warm. The flannel will make you feel like you’re still wrapped in a blanket on the couch. And who doesn’t want that? ◆ Filson’s shirts and jackets really are the stuff of legend, and this vintage-style work shirt lives up to the brand’s heritage admirably. Layer it on the coldest days imaginable. ◆ The white or sky blue shirt obviously should be in every guy’s wardrobe. The good part of these shirts can be worn with a suit and even on a semi or rather full casual attire with your jeans or chinos. ◆ The checked shirt. Well this one needs to be played well as sometimes they may distort your height and weight. If you are short, try the boxed and vertically stripped and vice versa to the tall guys. They give a statement look and one good thing if you really are a fashion buff you can pair with a nice tie even stripped. I know some still think it doesn’t go well, but, well, that is the new trend. Let me also take this opportunity to announce that with effect from next week Monday, Yours Truly and Hollywood Lee will be live on Capitalk FM “Fashion 263 Reloaded” — talking anything fashion. This came after some fashion buffs requested the show to be on radio too. Who knows, 2022 we maybe taking over from social media to television. Have a lovely fashionable weekend.