The Herald MANCHESTER. — Kell Brook sensationally beat Amir Khan in the sixth round, with the referee stopping the contest, to settle one of the most bitter and long-running feuds in British boxing on Saturday night. A packed-out Manchester Arena witnessed a demolition job from Sheffield’s Brook (35), who showcased timing and power to win in emphatic fashion. And Khan has admitted his loss to Brook could well be his last fight, saying he fears taking more “harmful punishment” and wants to spend more time with his family. Khan was sensationally stopped by Brook in the sixth round to settle one of British boxing’s most bitter rivalries. Speaking after the fight at Manchester Arena, 35-year-old Khan said he had “been in the game a very long time”. “I’ve done more than I ever expected,” he said. “Maybe I peaked too early. I was at the Olympics at 17, I won the world title at 22. I’m 35 now — I’ve been in the game a very long time. “I’m an old man. I want to spend time with my kids and my family.” A fight which had been in the making for over 17 years — with the two former world champions having traded words but never punches — ended with Khan and Brook embracing. The thrilling encounter might mark the end of both men’s fighting careers, with Brook admitting that, although he felt he was back in top form, retirement was on his mind. “I can live at peace with Amir Khan on my record,” Brook said. “My mojo is back and I love this game. We will listen to loved ones and see, but I’m back, baby. “I can walk away but I could fight (Chris) Eubank (Jr). I don’t like Eubank. If the fight is right I will fight — I’m a prize fighter.” Khan, also 35, admitted after the sixth defeat of his career that he had struggled to switch on during the fight. The bout may have taken place with both fighters in the twilight of their careers, but a raucous crowd of over 22 000 — which included former Oasis guitarist Noel Gallagher and Manchester City footballer Jack Grealish — showed just how big a draw Khan and Brook still are. Brook looked focused as he strutted to the ring to Kanye West’s ‘All of the Lights’, his trademark entrance music almost drowned out by the boos of the crowd. Khan — in a white and gold robe – looked slightly more relaxed as he made his ring walk, accompanied by stable-mate, former opponent and current world champion Terence Crawford. Khan and Brook locked eyes in the final seconds before the first bell and after all the wait, there was no caution from either fighter as fans were treated to a thrilling opening round. Khan demonstrated he still had hand speed in his arsenal with quick combinations in the opening half of the round. But Brook continued to stalk his opponent across the ring and caught Khan with a shot which wobbled the Bolton fighter. Khan was then on unsteady legs again towards the end of the round. Rounds two, three and four followed a similar pattern. Khan would start well, coming quickly out of the blocks, throwing feints and jabs, making his opponent miss and occasionally connecting with a single shot. But Brook’s relentless, brutal attack continued in the fifth round. He was dragging a marked-up Khan — who seemed to have lost his defence and hand speed — around the ring like a rag doll. — BBC Sport