The Herald Crime Reporter Police have launched a manhunt for a 43-year-old Gokwe man on allegations of murdering his two children, aged 14 and seven in a maize field, last week. The two children, a girl (14) and a boy (seven) were found in a maize field with deep cuts on the necks and the father’s axe was recovered from the scene. National police spokesperson, Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi, confirmed the gruesome murder. “The ZRP is investigating a case of murder which occurred at Nyandoro Village, Chief Chireya Gokwe, on February 2, 2022 where a man aged 43 murdered his daughter aged 14 and son aged seven with an axe. “The bodies of the victims were found with deep cuts on the necks in a maize field and the father’s axe was recovered on the scene while his shoeprints were observed near the bodies.” he said. Police in Glen View are investigating a sudden death incident which occurred at a house along 40th Crescent, where a three-year-old minor went to play at a neighbour’s house and allegedly ran in the corridor before hitting a pot with hot water which was being carried into a bathroom. The victim was burnt on the head, face and back and was taken to hospital where he died upon admission. Police in Mbembesi have arrested Busani Ncube (40) and Hloniphani Ndlovu (37) in connection with a case of murder which occurred on February 2, 2022 at Mavolontiya Village, Ntabazinduna. The suspects tied the victim, Marvelous Nzima (32) with a rope, before taking turns to assault him with a syjambok after the victim had proposed love to Busani Ncube’s 12-year-old granddaughter. The victim died while admitted at Ntabazinduna Clinic the following day. Meanwhile, police in Nyamapanda are still investigating circumstances surrounding a murder case in which the body of a woman, Juliet Chapfuruka (65), was found buried in a shallow grave on February 2, 2022 at Maruza Village in Mudzi.The body was discovered in an advanced state of decomposition with no head and with injuries. A human jaw, teeth and grey hair were found at about 64 metres from the grave along stream banks.