The Herald Bridget Mavhimira The battle lines have been drawn and the fans have started voting, while the judges are deliberating on the winners. This Saturday, all roads lead to the Rainbow Towers in Harare for the inaugural Zimbabwe Fashion Awards dubbed “Style Icon Zimbabwe Awards” (SIZA), which are being hosted by Style consultancy, Hollywood Lee, in conjunction with The Boss Brand and Gateway Stream. The event is running under the theme “Celebrating Fashion In Our Environment” where fashion celebrities, icons, designers, and retailers, among others, are being honoured at the event. Speaking at a press conference, the brains behind the awards Lillian Madyara, affectionately known as Hollywood Lee, said all was set for the show. “We have clothing retailers who have dressed so many celebrities who have risen to levels of international recognition and without the retailers’ assistance they wouldn’t have made it,” said Madyara. “We need to increase awareness in the fashion industry and inspire the upcoming fashion artists. We have people who have made it in the industry, who have been there for a long time and are still swimming despite the environment which they are operating in. So, these awards are a platform to actually say well done, you have done it and you are an inspiration to the upcoming generation.” Madyara said fashion was not just about clothing, but they were also considering jewellery, accessories from shoes to hair. “Fashion photographers are also going to be awarded as we have others who are now based in the United States whose images have made it into fashion magazine, the Vogue. So, we need to encourage and bring their work to light. “We have about 25 categories and the biggest of them all is designer of the year award followed by style icon award, who will be an all rounder.” For entertainment, ZIMA nominee and Zimdancehall musician Nutty O is scheduled to headline the main act, complemented by a fashion show by local designers and an exhibition in the afternoon.