The Herald LONDON. — It’s safe to say Atletico Madrid fans don’t want Cristiano Ronaldo to join the Spanish La Liga football club this summer. His connections to bitter rivals Real Madrid have seen Atletico fans have start a campaign which is against Ronaldo signing for them. Ronaldo has made it clear he wants out at Old Trafford this summer after failing to return for pre-season training and missing the tour to Thailand and Australia for personal reasons. The 37-year-old wants to continue playing in the Champions League and has been linked with a shock switch to Atletico. But Atleti fans have started a “#ContraCR7” trend on Twitter, which translates to “#AgainstCR7”. A number of supporters have posted pictures of Ronaldo with a big no symbol on his face to make their feelings clear. Another posted a meme of Chelsea and Bayern Munich playing table tennis with Ronaldo’s head after both clubs turned down the chance to sign him. It means Atletico Madrid have been left as the apparent frontrunners for his signature. Although the thought of having a player who has knocked Atletico Madrid out of the Champions League five times in his career is too much to bear for some. Fans are pulling out all the stops to ensure they DON’T sign the Manchester United star. One wrote on Twitter: “Just thinking that such a guy wears the Atleti shirt makes me sick to my stomach. It goes against everything it means to be from Atleti.” Another sensationally claimed: “It’s better to lose than win with this guy.” A third threatened: “If this one comes to my club, I will cancel my season tickets.” While one supporter wrote: “Never in my team.” SunSport spoke exclusively to Atletico Madrid fan Jonatan Fernandez last week, who confirmed that supporters do not want a player who “disrespected the fan base” to play for them. But despite the anti-Ronaldo feeling from fans, reports have suggested Atletico have put Antoine Griezmann up for sale in order to fund a move for Ronaldo. And elsewhere it is claimed Ronaldo himself is also interested in a controversial switch to his once sworn enemy. — The Sun