The Herald Lovemore Kadzura in RUSAPE Black Rhinos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (0)1 Yada Stars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (1) 1 BLACk Rhinos moved four places up the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League table despite being held to a draw by a determined Yadah Stars at Vengere yesterday. Chauya Chipembere, who where on 9th position, have since leapfrogged to fifth, courtesy of a point gained in an evenly balanced match. Yadah were the first to settle down and took control of the game. Seven minutes into the game Yadah had a glorious opportunity to take the lead when Kudakwashe Mangami came face to face with goalkeeper Blessing Mwandimustsira who blocked his shot with his leg. Rhinos’ Congolese forward Eli Ilunga’s shot hit the side netting as Rhinos were searching for the lead in 27th minute. Rhinos were forced to pull out captain Farai Banda due to injury. Blessing Mbavarira, who replaced Banda, was to announce his presence in the match five minutes later when he blocked a Yadah bound shot with his hand and referee Arnold Ncube pointed to the spot. Muscular Nkosi Mhlanga took the responsibility and fired the ball past a diving Mwandimutsira. In the second half, Rhinos came more resurgent piling on pressure and were rewarded in 79th minute when Yadah defender Brian Kadamanja fouled Vincent Mhandu inside the box and Dennis Dauda scored the resultant penalty. Rhinos substitute Stanley Murove could have thrust his team ahead but blasted his shot off the target in 84th minute. Herbert ‘’Jompano’’ Maruwa, the Black Rhinos, coach was satisfied with the result, saying they can sneak into the championship race. “We did well today. Title contenders are slowly losing and dropping points every week and we have to capitalise on that. You never know what happens.” Yadah coach Genesis Mangombe said his charges did well to pick a point on the road. “It’s an away point gained against a good side. The game was quite physical but our boys were up to the task.”