The Herald Business Reporter The Institute of Corporate Directors Zimbabwe (ICDZ) recently held its inaugural graduation ceremony for the Professional Director (ProD) certification programme, which saw several executives from different sectors of the economy obtain the qualification. ICDZ is a membership-based organisation and the definitive resource and voice for Zimbabwe’s corporate directors and boards. It works in collaboration with the Professional Director Institute Canada, and  recently introduced the internationally recognised Professional Director Certification Programme (ProD). The programme is a comprehensive and world class qualification, which upon successful completion of its requirements earns one the designation Professional Director (ProDir). ICDZ in a statement said that the program was designed by globally respected thought leaders and gives the board of directors’ confidence and competence on how to be more effective in the boardroom. “The institute recently had its inaugural graduates composed of respected business professionals from across different sectors,” it said. The directors included Ropafadzo Gwanetsa, Simon Muzviyo, Allen Mateko, Shepherd Mundondo, Davison Mauwa, Engineer Richard Mavunga, Regai Thandiwe Hove, Chengetai Ndudzo, Marjorie Chinyemba, Grace Mathe, Scrivern Marozva and George Tapedza. “A professional director has “impeccable character and emotional maturity, is engaged and qualified in governance, knows and fulfils their role, asks profound questions, is courageous, certain and confident, and above all they are competent in corporate governance and the application of governance principles and practices because they have studied the profession and earned their designation,” ICDZ said. The certification programme comprises five modules namely governance and strategy, governance and risk, governance and people, governance and board effectiveness, governance and resources and the final examination. According to ICDZ, it is carried out both physically and virtually and thereby enabling the much desired flexibility. “The ICDZ believes that good corporate governance is a prerequisite for a vibrant economy. Good corporate governance is an important mechanism that allows business to deliver value to all its key stakeholders,” it said. Meanwhile, ICDZ educates, trains, leads and provides information on the latest skills, trends, ideas and other know-how in corporate governance to all Zimbabwean leaders in the private and public as well as profit and non-profit sectors. It empowers leaders with the best leadership and corporate governance skills and helps boards strengthen investor trust and public confidence by ensuring that today’s directors are well prepared for tomorrow’s dynamic challenges.