The Herald Latwell Nyangu-Youth Interactive Writer Picking a course that you will enjoy is a big part of the university decision but many students end up at college without even knowing what they want to be or do. They enrol at universities like they are just attending a wild party believing that they will cross the river when they get there. Historically a time of exploration and self-discovery, the college years have been narrowed towards an increasingly singular goal — career training — and college students these days forgo the big questions about who they are and how they can change the world and instead focus single-mindedly on their economic survival. What is the purpose of being in college? College is about gaining valuable life experience and building connections. It’s about learning how to learn — which is the most critical component of the college experience. Establishing the skills to learn is one of the many reasons why liberal education matters so much. But the stress of college can lead to anxiety and depression and can lead to your immune system not being able to function properly. Both your mental health and physical health are key factors in your success at college. Making them a priority can help you stay focused in college and help you know what you want to be or do. Academics without purpose can be an exercise void of substance. We can powerfully influence the level of learner actualisation in our classrooms if we ask the right questions to help fellow students develop that sense of purpose. There is this tagging with 98 others which has become a common prank that many people have fallen trap to the explicit content tag. If you rush to click, you are trapped and risk being exposed to adult explicit content. However, the 98 others, is just a number which shows that anyone who can be hoodwinked into believing to something not purposeful. That 98 others figure will deceive you to think that all of them have clicked the link. Being part of those 98 others, makes you not suitable to be destined for what you desire most and we risk having students who when asked about the job they want to do, they say  “rese rese’. The “rese rese” concept which has been popularised as “RR” has caught up with many graduates who believe in random pickings. But once you are qualified, you ought to know what you want to do. Once you fall in this ‘tagged’ group, you are like a mere individual who can easily be trapped into believe anything. You also end up, choosing the wrong job since you will be desperate. Desperate individuals are a danger unto themselves and those around them since they believe in “RR”. Sadly, most of these ‘tagged’ students have a bigger number since after completing their courses, they will still not have proper know-how of what they want to do. When you are deciding which subject you want to take, a good place to start is to think about what interests you in general, what you enjoy studying at school and what you are good at. Throw a stone in the streets, you will hit many graduates, ask them what they want to do, they will tell you anything to sustain a life. Bear in mind that while being interested in a subject tends to go hand-in-hand with an aptitude for it, it’s also totally possible to be good at something you really don’t want to study for three years. I have asked several fellow students, what really do they want to do and why are they at university campuses. The answers are bad news to the ears, some are in college by default, some were sent to do a course by parents or relatives. While some are there just to wind up time and some have reasons. But can you spend three years to wind up time? I guess no, know what you want. You can utilise the opportunity of being at the campus for your advantage. As you prepare for your first year at the university, it’s easy to get overwhelmed by all you need to do before term starts — to help ease the burden, we have to agree that the reality will catch up with you, after the last day of the academic journey. It’s never too late to start thinking about your preferences, as being at college widens our minds through meeting different people. As we share our backgrounds and different conversations, we open up our focuses. Many people go to college to learn all they can about something they already love and maybe already know a lot about but there is always more to learn. If you love doing something that is a good path to follow. If you are not certain yet, then take various classes, find out what you really like. Also research online the many things you may want to check out. Look them up, see what they have to offer, what qualifications are needed to make that a career you will always enjoy. Keep in mind, some decide that they can do better by going to the university. One has to research and keep options open until you can actually do some of the things you think you may like. Being motivated is an essential part of success, and you will feel a lot more motivated if you are genuinely enthusiastic about your subject. If you are struggling to settle on a subject that balances your ability with your enthusiasm, try engaging. The moment, you step your foot at college, know what you want to do!