The Herald Thupeyo Muleya-Beitbridge Bureau The provision of high-quality career education and guidance is an extremely essential part of schooling in preparing young Zimbabweans for their future,an official has said. This was said recently by Zimborders Consortium general manager, Mr Nqobile Ncube, who is also a career immigration officer. He was speaking to pupils from Form 3 up to Form 6 drawn from 18 secondary schools in Beitridge during a career education and guidance programme held at Vhembe High School yesterday. Mr Ncube said a key function of secondary schools was to prepare pupils to transition successfully towards their future career paths. “The decisions that young people make at school have a big impact on their lives, affecting not only their further education, training or employment but also their social lives, finances, and health outcomes,” he said. “The pupils are more engaged in education and highly motivated about their future when they a clear understanding of themselves and how they might live and work when they leave school. “Now is the time to consider all the infinity possibilities and introspection and deliberation and thoughtfulness”. Mr Ncube, who has served in the Department of Immigration for more than 20 years, said it was critical to highlight that those decisions made at high school often make or break a student’s career. The energy, skills and skills and aspiration of young people were invaluable assets to the country, he said Helping young people to realise their potential by gaining access to productive employment is very crucial. “I, therefore, call on all Government departments and non-governmental organisation to continue with this role of creating career awareness and encouraging our youths to venture into productive sectors of the economy,” said Mr Ncube. “To you pupils, success can only be achieved if you remain open-minded, you are focused and enthusiastic. Therefore self-improvement is the key to success and that is why all students need to receive career guidance services at least once before the appropriate decisions are made in order to support them when making the right further steps”. The career guidance, he added should also help in shaping a training structure that is better adaptive to the labour markets requirements to encourage pupils and adults to make more conscious and effective career choices “We consider this day, an important milestone from the aspect not only from a national perspective but on the international development in career guidance,” added Mr Ncube. An important objective of career education and guidance, he said was to assist and strengthen the dialogue between pupils and different representatives from diverse fields of the country’s economic sectors. “This is a special day for the learners, especially those choosing a subject combination at the Advanced Level stage. They need information on making the right decisions and hence I advise the pupils to take seriously the engagement here today,” said a teacher, Ms Patience Moyo. In separate interviews, pupils from most schools said they were grateful to be afforded an opportunity to engage with professionals from various sectors. An A-level student from St Mary’s High school, Karidzagundi said they had learned a lot about the vast career options available in post-secondary ad tertiary education. “We have had a wonderful experience on what to expect in post-secondary and tertiary education. I am sure most students will live in this place conscious of what they need to do to pursue their dreams,” said Entle Muleya from Zezani High School. According to Nqobizitha Mfandaidza of Vhembe High school, the career services were critical for people to have a wide range of choices when choosing careers. “I am grateful that we have been taught a lot of things around the labour market. From what we have experienced, there are more opportunities out there depending on one’s passion and strength and capabilities,” said Cliff Davemwa of St Joseph Secondary School.