The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe taekwondo team managed to win five medals at the African Championships which were recently held in Mbabane, Eswatini.  Zimbabwe, whose trip to Eswatini was sponsored by the Aviation Grounds Services, had eight fighters at the annual event where they fished out one gold medal, three silver and one bronze medal. Darlington Simango was the biggest winner after he won a gold medal as Heavens Chaendepi, Kudakwashe Taranhike and Eva Karimazondo won silver medals while Britney Kadewere managed to bring home a bronze medal. National team coach, Ndaona Kembo, who travelled with the team to the small mountain kingdom, was voted the second best coach and won a silver medal. The tournament also saw Harare’s  dormitory town of Epworth continuing to make a mark in the sport as Epworth Taekwondo Club athlete Heavens Chaendepi won a silver medal. The 17-year-old Chaendepi said he is happy to have won the medal and is now looking forward to future events. “I am very happy to have won the silver medal and I thank my parents and my coach, Master Willard Kashiri, for encouraging me. “The journey was not simple but through support and hard work I have managed to win the silver medal. It was my first international tournament and I thank ZTA for according me an opportunity to represent the country. “I am now looking forward to take part in more international tournaments. There is more support I am getting and as someone from Epworth, it helps us to stay away from alcohol and drugs,” said Chaendepi. Kashiri, who has nurtured so many taekwondo athletes in Epworth, including the talented female fighter Natsiraishe Maritsa, said the sport is helping a lot of youths. “I am happy that we are having so many talented athletes taking part in taekwondo in Epworth. I am happy for Chaendepi as he has managed to represent us well. “The medal will help other youths appreciate the sport. I am also grateful to Aviation Grounds Services as they helped us a lot. AGS partnered us through the acquisition of passports, kits which included tracksuits and traveling bags,” said Kashiri.