The Herald Shepherd Chimururi Interactive Youth Correspondent Coding is the new digital literacy inspiring students with big innovative ideas in line with the education 5.0 model that focuses on innovation and industrialisation. A decade ago basic computer operation used to be the must get after school skill for students but not anymore. Coding is the latest trend in school computer labs and the students are loving it. Coding has a special place in the education system and it is written in black and white in the national syllabuses. The foundation starts at infant level where learners start with programmes like Scratch junior, scratch, logo, code academy, screen turtle and then move on to more complicated applications like java, python, HTML or CSS and SQL. As the corporate sector rushes to catch up with the 4th Industrial revolution, coding is turning out to be a fertile mustard seed when it comes to rewarding on demand jobs of the future. These include computer programmer, software application developer, computer systems engineer, web developer, computer systems analyst, cyber security expert, database administrator, software quality assurance engineer, business intelligence analyst, etc. Brendon Sande (11) who is doing Grade 7 at Kudzanai Primary School said he loves programming using scratch and C++ and has already fixed his heart on a career in coding. “I would like to be a programmer (master coder) when I finish school and I also want to create a website which assists rural primary learners to learn elementary programming,” he said. Besides offering unlimited career opportunities later in life coding has immediate benefits for learners. “I love making car racing and fighting games but more importantly coding makes me focus because the way it challenges me to find out how things work. “As when l finish school I want to study computer engineering so l can be a software developer,” he said. Portia Ncube (19) a part time coding teacher said that he has discovered that Scratch Jr is the best programming language best suited for introducing young learners to coding. The programme is workable with children between five and eight years. “Scratch makes teaching children coding easier because it uses colour blocks. “Instead of being confused by semicolons or mismatched brackets, children can simply drag colour blocks to make their interactive stories with characters that can jump, dance and sing,” she said. Aspiring local coders must not fret over where they will get tech support as there is an option to join international active online communities hosted by developers of the respective programmes. This new phenomenon is inspiring and arming learners with tools to shape the future being that looks set to be dominated by artificial intelligence, robotics and automation of daily life. However, the benefits for coding can also be extended to journalists, writers, or even bloggers who would desire to keep updating information on their websites.