The Herald Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe senior men’s cricket team are scheduled to regroup in Harare this weekend to begin their training camp ahead of a bumper cricket month. A period of serious cricket awaits Dave Houghton and his men as they host Bangladesh in a limited overs series which is followed by another home series against India, before leaving for Australia late next month. The Chevrons are expected to start trooping in camp today after getting a few days’ rest at the back of the successful ICC T20 World Cup Qualifier B that ended in Bulawayo last weekend. The team gave the home supporters something to look forward to following a perfect run in the tournament that featured mostly the Associate Member Nations. It was important for the chevrons to show they belong to the top as they finished the tournament unbeaten after playing five games. Zimbabwe emerged winners of Group A with victories over Singapore, Jersey and USA before accounting for Papua New Guinea in the semi-final and winning the final against the Netherlands. The success came with a boost to the individual player rankings. The biggest gains were experienced by Sean Williams, who rose eight places up the ladder to 12th place on the global T20I all-rounders rankings. Sikandar Raza, who was named Man of the Tournament also jumped five places to 19th among the all-rounders while Ryan Burl is on 17th position. Wesley Madhevere rose one place among the T20I batters to 48th place. But the attention now has shifted to the tougher games ahead. The Chevrons are set to host Bangladesh in three One Day Internationals and as many T20 Internationals. They will get the ball rolling with the T20I series next Saturday. Houghton and his men will have at least one week to work on their game before entertaining the Tigers. The Bangladesh team is scheduled to depart for Zimbabwe next Tuesday, just days after completing their tour of the West Indies, to take part in three-match T20I and ODI series. The Tigers are set to arrive with their confidence high following the ODI whitewash of West Indies. The performance resulted in some of their players moving up the ODI rankings with Tamim Iqbal (17th) and Liton Das (30th) gaining two places each. Zimbabwe and Bangladesh will play three T20I games set for July 30 and 31 July and August 2 at Harare Sports Club. The two sides will then lock horns in as many ODIs set for August 5, 7 and 10 at the same venue. A few days later, Zimbabwe will host India for three ODIs to be played on August 18, 20 and 22, also at Harare Sports Club. The series against India is part of the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup Super League, a 13-team competition serving as the main route for direct qualification for the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup 2023 to be staged in India. Zimbabwe will then tour Australia for another Super League series consisting of three ODIs scheduled for August 28 and 31 August and 3 September in Townsville before returning Down Under for the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup set for October.