The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter GEMS centre Patricia Mauladi says she has to go an extra mile to catch up with the rest of the senior national netball squad after she got a late call-up last week. Mauladi joined the squad last Thursday. She was not part of the initial squad that got into camp at Girls High School early this month to prepare for the Netball World Cup qualifiers due to take place in August, in Pretoria, South Africa. The 26-year-old was part of the Gems squad that represented the country at the 2019 Netball World Cup in Liverpool, England. Her last assignment with the senior team was the Pent Series and Africa Cup last year in Namibia. “I am really happy because I am back. I am happy to join my teammates, we played together for some time but because of the weight I had gained, my game had gone down a bit. “But I realised I needed to shed weight so that I can continue playing. So I am very happy being back. “I am still young, I still want to showcase my talent, so I am working very hard to catch up with the rest of the squad since I came in a bit late. But I am very confident that it will work out, I will continue working hard. “So far so good, I am putting in extra effort to make it in the final selection since I joined camp late. So I am working very hard and I believe I will continue making good progress up to the time we get to the competition,” said Mauladi. By bringing in Mauladi, who also plays wing attack and wing defence, the Gems technical team is hoping to have more options on the mid-court, which is one of the areas they were concerned about. They already had Progress Moyo, Nobukhosi Ndlovu, Prudence Sibanda and Beaula Hlungwani in camp. Mauladi said working on her weight and regaining her form has not been easy but it’s worth it. She is upbeat the Gems will qualify for the 2023 Netball World Cup finals and believes the Confederation of Southern Africa Netball Associations Tri-Series gave the technical team the chance to identify the side’s weakness. “When we came back from the World Cup in 2019 and when we had the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, I started gaining weight. We were not training, didn’t do any workouts, we relaxed. “I have had to work hard to lose weight and it’s painful. So I have to maintain my body. I am happy at least it’s paying off. “I believe we have a good chance of qualifying for the World Cup finals. Personally, I don’t want to miss the World Cup because I enjoyed myself when we went to the World Cup in 2019. It was my first time and I wouldn’t want us to miss next year’s World Cup, especially when it’s going to be in South Africa,” said Mauladi. The Gems camp is running until July 31 and indications are that they likely to break for a few days before the traveling team regroup. The technical team has been making adjustments during this camp and so far they have dropped four players — Lizzie Kanyekwere, Taslima Mdimba, Thandekile Ndlovu and Andile Ndhlovu. Zimbabwe are going to be fighting for one of the two remaining slots to the World Cup to be staged in Cape Town, South Africa, in 2023. South Africa and Uganda have already qualified by virtue of being the hosts and rankings. Taking into account their performance in their last assignment, which was the COSANA Tri-nations, in Malawi, the Gems are aware they need to up their game if they are to book their place at the World Cup. Squad Sharon Bwanali (ZDF Queens), Tafadzwa Matura (ZDF Queens), Claris Kwaramba (Platinum Queens), Priscilla Ndlovu (Platinum Queens), Sharleen Makusha (Platinum Queens), Chipo Shoko (Platinum Queens), Progress Moyo (Platinum Queens), Felisitus Kwangwa (Surrey Storm, England), Lynette Tanhira (Platinum Queens), Nobukhosi Ndhlovu (Goldreef), Ursula Ndlovu (Glow Petroleum) Prudence Sibanda (Glow Petroleum), Yeukai Chamba (Tonadoes, South Africa), Nicole Muzanenamo (Greenfuel), Elizabeth Mushore (Platinum Queens), Patricia Mauladi (ZDF), Beaula Hlungwani (Glow Petroleum).