The Herald Ricky Zililo Senior Sports Reporter FACING the big guns tends to psych-up players from the so-called small teams and it will be no exception when super-charged Bulawayo Chiefs players face Harare giants Dynamos in a Castle Lager Premiership football match at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. Having lost the first leg 2-0 in a match in which Chiefs failed to convert a penalty, Chiefs captain Marlvin Mkolo, who has been a vital cog at defence, predicts a tough encounter. It is a match that the Chiefs skipper believes they have to collect maximum points to move up their ladder. Chiefs are on position 10 with 29 points after 22 games and can move three places up the ladder if they beat Dynamos, in the event that Ngezi Platinum Stars (30), Black Rhinos (31) and Herentals (32) lose their respective matches. Ngezi Platinum and Black Rhinos, who fired their head coaches during the week, take on Triangle United and Cranborne Bullets respectively, while Herentals visit unpredictable third from the bottom Bulawayo City. Mkolo said following their last weekend’s 2-0 away win at Tenax CS FC, where they got their goals from striker Obriel Chirinda and attacking midfielder Aurthur Musiyiwa, morale in their camp is high. “Obviously, Dynamos are a big side and players are always keen on playing in such big matches and our bunch isn’t different. Besides this being one of the big fixtures in terms of history that Dynamos has, we are not putting ourselves under unnecessary pressure but are focused on fighting for three points. “It’s a self-motivating fixture, everyone is working hard to be available for selection and I’m sure we’re giving the coaches a positive headache because of the energy that the guys are giving at training. We understand the importance of getting maximum points so that we move as far away from the tail end,” Mkolo said. Mkolo seems to have established a formidable partnership with veteran Ben Nyahunzwi at central defence in the absence of Kevin Moyo. It is unlikely that Chiefs coach Nilton Terroso will temper with the backline of Mkolo, Nyahunzwi, Tarisai Chikwende and Felix Moyo when they face DeMbare. Chiefs’ rising star Mthokozisi Msebe, who missed his team’s 2-0 win at Tenax, serving a suspension having accumulated three yellow cards, is hoping to bounce back into the team. Msebe, who is having a remarkable Premiership debut season, having joined Chiefs from ZIFA Bulawayo Division Two Soccer League side Bantu Leopards, is eager to play a role against Dynamos. “When a team wins, it’s difficult to just find your way back into the team and I’ve been working hard to try and make sure that I can be part of the squad on Sunday. I’m enjoying great form of late and I want to play in such games. “As a team, we’re working hard to make sure that when we travel to Harare we bring a good result. I would be happy if I can play a part in getting the desired result,” said Msebe. Chirinda, who is not new to big matches having done so while at Chicken Inn and at the now-defunct Bantu Rovers, says they want to maintain consistency. “It’s a big game and all eyes will be on us but it’s just like any other match. What’s key for us is to try to be consistent and build  from our win against Tenax,” Chirinda said. Bulawayo Chiefs also have another ace in their pack in 22-year-old Ghanaian striker Wilson Mensah who has been their driving force up-front. Mensah will definitely be the man to watch against Dynamos at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday.