The Herald Tadious Manyepo in VICTORIA FALLS CARRYING a 2kg-advantage over her opponent and guaranteed support from the home fans, WIBA intercontinental lightweight boxing champion Monalisa “Queen of the Jungle” Sibanda is bubbling with confidence. She faces off against challenger Small Valente Aciro of Uganda in what should be a battle of wits at the Kingdom Hotel here tonight. For the past three years, both Sibanda and Aciro have not boxed but during yesterday’s weigh-in from which they were in-weight, they showed their readiness to thrill in the ring. Sibanda has become the longest serving champion without having to defend the belt in the ring after three years were washed away by the Covid-19 pandemic. And Aciro has been longing to wrestle for the belt while Sibanda has prepared to retain the title from the day she won it against Kenyan Joyce Awino in April 2019. Sibanda, who weighed in 62kg, yesterday said she was ready to stop her opponent. “I am feeling very much sharper. I have done everything in the gym and outside the gym. I am ready, physically and mentally for this fight,” she said. “I am a lucky boxer who has been given a chance to defend my title on the sidelines of two very big events happening in my country for the first time in history. “That alone can motivate a fighter to defend his or her belt. “But I know, I should stick to my tactics and not put myself under too much pressure. “Boxing is a tricky sport and tactics should always be on point. But having said that, I simply cannot afford to lose this belt. I would like to thank people in Victoria Falls who have been promising to come and support me. I am at home and they should expect me to deliver for them.” Sibanda’s coach, Simon Sankulani, said his boxer is a “slow starter” but nothing should stop her from winning the bout. “We have worked on all the boxing aspects we know. We are very much convinced we will win this fight and retain our title,” he said. “We are not putting ourselves under much pressure but look, we are at home and we should make our people proud. “We have always been ready and the day to prove the readiness has finally come.” Aciro, who is facing a Zimbabwean boxer for the first time in her career, however, warned Sibanda to expect an upset. She weighed in 60kg and she will have some strong backing from the stands given about 10 Ugandans are also here for the WBC/ABU conventions. “I have come from a country as far as Uganda to box. I know my God is not a sleeping God. I am the sunlight of Uganda and I am going with the belt back home,” said Aciro. “I will never let Uganda fall down and my God will do a great miracle.”