The Herald Charles Mabika Special Correspondent THIS week’s selection has, so far, been the toughest yet because I had to combine the three high-density residences of St Mary’s, Seke and Zengeza which all fall under the great town of Chitungwiza and boy, what a torrid time I had before settling for the final XI. I was really hurt because I had to leave out a host of top quality players who hailed from this rich football nursery which produced mega stars who shone on our playing fields since 1980. A few examples that could have made it into Chitungwiza’s Finest XI are:  Usman “Huchi” Misi, Forbes Ndaba (Darryn T), Morgan “Mogiza” Nkathazo, Butler “MJ” Masango (CAPS United); Austin “Masebho” Juwayeyi (Fire Batteries); Alois “Shaw” Godzi, Musareka Jenitala (Dynamos); Liberty Masunda (Blackpool); Nedson Muchuchu (Tanganda); Muzondiwa Gonese (Monomotapa). So, here we go once again: A former Warriors skipper who Is currently riding the crest of a wave at FC Platinum as the team’s head coach as they currently sit at the top of the log standings in search of a fourth League title. Some of his finishes were spectacularly struck from acute angles. An ex-Warriors attacker and one of only a few players to feature for the “Big Three” rivals – CAPS United, Dynamos and Highlanders. “Shutto” continued with his explosive raids in the South African top-flight. Now Head Coach at Northern Region Division One side Banket United. Arrived as a nonentity at DeMbare from Division One side Smirnoff Tigers and waltzed into the famous blue and white headlights overnight. Blessed with vision and pin-point passing ability, many Dynamos fans still remember and talk about his rare exploits at their club. A former Warriors trialist who could have widened the national’s team’s creative hub if had been a regular. Upon retirement, he coached his beloved DeMbare where he won a whopping four successive league titles (2011-14) and also took the Warriors to the AFCON finals in 2017. Is currently rated the finest coach in Malawi where he has made his Nyasa Big Bullets the “team to beat” there. Watch out for my Mabvuku Finest X1 since 1980 next week. 