The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter DEFENDING champions FC Platinum are set to return to Mandava this afternoon for the first time in six weeks as they look to consolidate their hold at the top of the Castle Lager Premiership football table with a date against Bulawayo Chiefs. The platinum miners are not throwing caution to the wind as they also welcome a host of their former players that include Kelvin Madzongwe, Perfect Chikwende and twins Kelvin and Elvis Moyo who are now in the books of the visiting Amakhosi. FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza and his men this week sounded upbeat ahead of the visit by a tricky Chiefs side that beat them 0-2 in an emotionally charged reverse fixture earlier this year. The Zvishavane miners are on a winning streak of six games, with their last three victories coming on the road after beating Cranborne Bullets, Tenax and championship rivals Chicken Inn. They are hoping to continue with their fine form this afternoon. “We had very difficult games away from home but at the end of the day we managed to come back with maximum points. Our preparations for the coming match have been going on well although we still have some guys who are still out with injuries. “But everything is okay with us at the moment. What is important is to shift our attention to the game against Bulawayo Chiefs. “We are playing a quality side, so it’s not going to be easy for us. But what is important is to go out there with the same mentality and attitude we have been applying in our previous matches. “The guys have been working hard and it’s always great when you have a bunch of players who are willing to work and sacrifice everything to win football matches. It’s very encouraging, especially for me as a coach. I am happy with the attitude and the desire to win games,” said Mapeza. The platinum miners took control of the race last week following the comprehensive 3-0 win away to Chicken Inn. They swapped places at the top with FC Platinum now on 40 points, two clear of the Gamecocks after 19 games. Mapeza, however, has refused to be destructed by talking about the title race. FC Platinum appear to have rediscovered the form that won them the last three domestic titles, two of them under Mapeza. The former Zimbabwe international said his focus was on integrating young players into the side after embarking on a rebuilding exercise this year that saw several senior players falling by the wayside. The platinum miners have infused into the team young talents like Panashe Mutimbanyoka, Kelvin Mangiza and Thandolwenkosi Ngwenya who have since transformed themselves into key pillars, under the project. And, according to Mapeza, winning the title again this year would be a bonus. “We are not thinking much about that. I think I said it last week in Bulawayo that what is important is to keep giving these youngsters a chance. Our main priority at the moment is developing these youngsters. “As for the league championship, we will keep pushing and we will keep trying to win our matches and then we will see what happens, come the end of the season,” said Mapeza.