The Herald Ellina Mhlanga–Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S sprinter Tinotenda Matiyenga made an early exit at the ongoing World Athletics Championships after he finished seventh in the men’s 200m heat three, in Eugene, Oregon, United States, yesterday. Matiyenga clocked 20.72 seconds in the event that took place in the early hours of yesterday (Zimbabwean time). Erriyon Knighton of the United States won the heat in 20.01 seconds. He was followed by South Africa’s Luxolo Adams with a time of 20.10 seconds and on third place was Nethaneel Mitchell-Blake from Great Britain in 20.11 seconds. Yancarlos Martinez of Dominican Republic was fourth in 20.13 seconds. Jamaica’s Akeem Bloomfield was fifth in 20.56 seconds while Sibusiso Matsenjwa came sixth in 20.60 seconds. There were seven heats lined up and the first three athletes from each heat plus three fastest times qualified for the semi-final. Overall, Matiyenga was placed 34 out of 44 athletes. The United States-based sprinter qualified for the meet through the world rankings. National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe president, Tendai Tagara, said with Matiyenga’s qualification confirmation coming just a few days before the competition, it had an effect on the athlete’s preparation for the meet. “Technically, I don’t blame the boy. Remember after NCAA championships he went off season, only to be invited six days before competition which is the difference with (Chengetayi) Mapaya,” said Tagara. Triple jumper Mapaya and marathon runner Isaac Mpofu qualified through the entry standards. Tagara said he remains optimistic and believes Matiyenga can qualify for the next edition, which is on next year in Hungary, Budapest, from August 19 to 27. “His NCAA times were encouraging. If he pushes himself, because I know he is a fighter, he will qualify next year,” said Tagara. With two of the country’s representatives done with their events, focus is now on Mapaya in the triple jump. Mapaya, who is also based in the United States, is up for competition in the early hours of Friday in the qualification round. The event is scheduled for 3:20am (Zimbabwean time) on Friday. Mapaya had a good run up to the World Championships, qualifying for the World Championships when leaping 17.26 during the NCAA Championships last month. Lisimati Phakamile, who is in charge of the team at World Championships, said they are pinning their hopes on Mapaya to reach the final and attempt for a medal. “We are actually pinning our hopes on Chengetayi to perform exceptionally well, get to the final and at least attempt for a medal,” said Phakamile ahead of the championships. So far the best performance for Zimbabwe is from marathon runner Mpofu, who raised the country’s flag high when he finished on position 10 in the men’s marathon on Sunday, also setting a new national record in the process.