The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter LEADERS FC Platinum have the most balanced squad in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League given their returns offensively and defensively. Although the Norman Mapeza-coached team offloaded some of their old horses at the beginning of this year, they retained almost a full complement of their squad which did duty for them in the Chibuku Super Cup which they won last year. And the Zvishavane club are reaping the rewards of continuity as they bid to win their fourth league title in four consecutive seasons. Mapeza’s side lead the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League standings with 43 points to their name after 20 rounds of fixtures and they are five points clear of second-placed Chicken Inn. They have scored the most number of goals in the league (32) and conceded the least (7) and their massive goal difference (25) makes a mockery of their rivals with ninth-placed Ngezi Platinum Stars who have a goal difference of (11) their closest pursuers in this regard. But the club is looking to further strengthen the squad to make sure they remain competitive, with only two weeks before the mid-season transfer window closes. And no one in the league is taking a back seat in this endeavour but which are the specific areas each of the 18 clubs in the league need to address? FC Platinum’s goalkeeping department has proven to be strong with Warriors No. 1 Petros Mhari and his under-study Wallace Magalane having alternated to good effect this term. The defence has also been impressive, conceding just seven goals and Mapeza should be a happy man although his midfield department has shown, at times, they need some further reinforcement. Chicken Inn have played some impressive football but their form has taken a dip recently after losing their last two matches. They have been impressive in front of goal where Marlvin Whata and Brian Muza have been banging in goals, providing 15 of the 26 goals the Bulawayo side have scored this season. But their defensive link going backwards has been shaky, conceding 11 goals. The departure of goalkeeper Donovan Bernard to South African lower division side Tshakuma Tsha Madzivandila has further shaken things up and coach Joey “Mafero” Antipas said he has already started looking for a goalie. Chicken Inn have also since secured the services of defender Vincent Moyo from Bulawayo City and he is hopeful returnee striker Clive Augusto will also be able to help the club get more goals. “Of course, we are looking at replacing Donovan Bernard. We have to trust Pride Zendera to keep the goals for us and we certainly need to bring in another good goalkeeper at the moment,” said Antipas. “We have also welcomed back Clive Augusto and we are also looking at dropping some few players. We need a midfielder of note and hopefully we can get one.” Dynamos, who are third on the table with 35 points, eight behind FC Platinum, have been largely blunt in front of goal with their three outright strikers scoring just a single goal combined in 20 matches. Evans Katema, Alex Orotomal and Albert Eonde have been so poor Dynamos have had to rely on winger Bill Antonio and midfielder Emmanuel Paga for goals. “We will be looking at strengthening our attack mostly where goals have been hard to get. We have already submitted to the executive and we are hopeful we can get at least one good striker,” said Dynamos coach Tonderai Ndiraya. The Glamour Boys have conceded 11 goals as goalkeeper Taimon Mvula has been exposed more and more by his defence which Ndiraya also hinted needs to be looked at. Mutare-based Manica Diamonds, who started the season like a house on fire, have since fizzled out and sit fourth on the table with the goals having dried up. Chief striker Nyasha Chintuli hardly features in the equation and even in those games he plays, he is often deprived of clean supply from the midfield which needs some fresh legs. The likes of Pascal Manhanga, Jefferies Takunda and Tichaona Mabvura, who are mostly handed that task, have been finding it very difficult to fashion out chances for the otherwise good looking strike-force which also has Lloyd Katongomara. Manica Diamonds have conceded 16 goals with their two goalkeepers Ashley Reyners and Jorum Muchambo alternating the post. Triangle United, on fifth place, have been one of the best teams in front of goal, netting 26 times but they have been leaky at the back as well where they have conceded 21 goals. The club could lose midfielder Walter Sande to a yet-to-be-named Botswana team and coach Jairos Tapera has since started looking for a replacement. He has already signed Tanaka Mutyambizi from Yadah and Enock Karembo from struggling CAPS United. “Of course, we could lose Sande (Walter) and we are looking at options to replace him. We also want to further strengthen our strike-force. We are looking for someone who can complement Donald Ngoma in scoring goals. “We also need a left winger as we want to be more competitive going into the final stretch of the league,” said Tapera. Highlanders are enjoying a new lease of life under new coach Baltemar Brito who has picked seven points in the three matches that he has been in charge. The Bulawayo giants have now moved to sixth on the log. Although he has not added any new signing to the squad, Bosso have suddenly transformed into a competitive outfit turning Barbourfields into a fortress again. Brito told the media in the aftermath of his drawn match against Ngezi Platinum that he was looking at adding some creative midfielders into the fray. “We are happy with the progress we are making and we will be bringing in a midfielder this transfer window hopefully,” he said. Army side Black Rhinos have been one of the stand-out performers this season and they sit seventh on the log with 30 points, just like Bosso and eighth placed Herentals with only goal difference separating the three. Rhinos are close to completing a loan deal for Cranborne Bullets forward Everson Feremba as coach Herbert “Jompano’’ Maruwa looks to challenge for the top honours which are practically still attainable. “We need to freshen up things a bit in every department but we are still negotiating with players from different teams. We will confirm the deals once they are done,” said Maruwa. Herentals coach Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva will be looking at adding more steel in defence with reports suggesting his club has already secured Collen Mujuru from Harare City. Former Warriors captain Benjani Mwaruwari, whose Ngezi Platinum Stars are ninth, has already indicated that he is looking for a holding midfielder, which is also the same position which CAPS United should consider given Tatenda Tavengwa has since left for South Africa. Makepekepe’s fellow relegation candidates Cranborne Bullets, Bulawayo City, Harare City, ZPC Kariba, Yadah and Whawha have more work to do in all departments.