The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter FC PLATINUM midfielder Nigel Makumbe is set to miss FC Platinum’s clash with Harare City at the National Sports Stadium this afternoon as the champions look to consolidate the gains they have made in the last two months of the Castle Lager Premiership football campaign. The platinum miners opened a six-point gap at the summit last week. However, they are cautious about facing a Harare City side that is struggling to come out of the relegation matrix. FC Platinum, who are gunning for a fourth straight championship, are unbeaten in nine games while Harare City have won only once during the same period and are staring possible relegation. Harare City were deserted by several key players in the last few months and have been finding it difficult to replace and remain competitive. Their coach Taurai Mangwiro is aware of the huge task of stopping the in-form platinum miners. The last time FC Platinum were in Harare, they drew 0-0 with Dynamos, two weeks ago, to bring to a halt their winning streak of seven games. With that in mind, their coach Norman Mapeza told journalists that they will not underrate the Sunshine Boys on account of their poor fortunes this season. “We are playing a very good team in Harare City. Their coach, Taurai Mangwiro, has done really well. I think results haven’t been coming their way but they are playing some good football. “So it’s not going to be easy for us but at the end of the day it’s all about going out there with a positive mentality, the same hunger and desire that we have produced week in and week out. “Harare City is a quality side, despite their position on the log standings. They have been playing quality football and they have a good coach in Mangwiro. So we know the challenges we are going to face out there. I will always keep saying it, we take one game at a time,” said Mapeza. FC Platinum, however, have encountered setbacks with midfielder Makumbe out with a knee problem. Evidence Tendai and Gift Bello also picked up knocks during the week and were set to be assessed yesterday to establish whether they could make the trip to Harare. FC Platinum skipper Petros Mhari and defender William Stima are still out with knee problems while Hagiazo Magaya and Blessing Moyo are back to fitness. Second-placed Chicken Inn are also away to ZPC Kariba, who can be unpredictable, at Nyamhunga while giants Dynamos host Bulawayo Chiefs at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow. These are not easy fixtures and the league’s top three sides would need to summon their powers to avoid slip ups. FC Platinum lead the log standings with 47 points, followed by Chicken Inn on 41 and Dynamos 39 points.