The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Chess Federation’s acting president Mucha Mkanganwi has heaped praise on the quality of players that left the country yesterday for the 44th World Chess Olympiad to be held in Chennai, India, from July 28 to August 10. Speaking before their departure for the prestigious biennial Chess Olympiad, Mkanganwi said Zimbabwe are not going to this assignment just to add numbers but to be counted through results on the scoreboard. The tournament was initially scheduled for Moscow, Russia, in 2020 but was postponed due to the global Covid-19 pandemic and later moved to India for 2022. In the previous edition held in Batumi, Georgia, in 2018, Zimbabwe did their all-time best and set a new record of finishing as the second-best African country just after Egypt. Commenting on the quality of players, Mkanganwi was confident that team will do well in India. “I am very confident in the quality of the team we have. The talent is there, the experience is there and the desire to excel is there. “We have had too many things to do in a very short space of time with regards to acquisition of tickets, visas and attire for the team which we managed. “I am excited and impressed with the strides made within such a limited time, and we are doing the best we can for our senior team to create the best environment for them to compete at their best. This is an opportunity for the team to put chess on the spotlight in the country and make our work easier in terms of efforts to popularise the game,” said Mkanganwi. This year’s team has a lot on their shoulders as they also bear the pressure of improving the previous record. The Zimbabwe National Chess Team was announced a few weeks ago and features quite formidable line-ups on both the women’s and men’s side. Teams Women: Kudzanayi Charinda, Linda Dalitso Shaba, Christine Makwena, Hazel Refiloe Mudodo, Tatenda Melisa Zengeni Men: Rodwell Makoto, Spencer Masango, Jemusse Zhemba, Emarald Mushore, Roy Mwadzura.