The Herald Yeukai Karengezeka Arts Correspondent Gospel music fanatics are in for a treat this weekend as celebrated gospel musician Minister Michael Mahendere and his band Direct Worship host a two-day show dubbed “July Worship Festival” starting today. The festival, which will end tomorrow, will be held at the spacious Harare Gardens main stage. The return of the festival, which was last held in 2018 at the same venue, is expected to be bigger and better as compared to the first one. An array of talented gospel musicians are lined up to also perform as they take turns to serenade fans. Among them are Tinashe Magacha, Welcome Nhariswa, Tonde Machamacha and Fionah Chinembiri. In an interview, Mahendere told Herald Arts and Entertainment that all was set for the festival. “I am so excited and looking forward to having a lot of fun through music and dance this Friday and Saturday, with our fans. “They must come geared up because we are going to be on fire as we pull down the walls of Jericho. “In terms of preparations, everything is now in place and all the supporting artistes will be there.” Mahendere said tomorrow, it will be a family fun day in the afternoon and the show will have different segments. “I am encouraging fans to come in their numbers, and on Saturday we are going to have a number of activities lined up. We have jumping castles for the kids, food, and teas will be available. Do not worry about the cold weather because heaters will be available to warm up the place. “Then for our performance as a band, we shall have a love segment as we dish out romantic songs, members will be taking turns to lead cover versions then the praise and worship session will conclude the festival.” The festival is being held in partnership with 4 May International, Thace Apparel, NetOne, Booties Pharmacies, and Gladiola Couture. Meanwhile, the “Makomborero” hit-maker will also be participating in the UK Summer Gospel Experience show to be held next weekend where other musicians like Ivy Kombo Kasi, Obert Mazivisa, Sharon Rumbi Manatsa and Matildah Tekeshe will be performing.