The Herald Tapiwanashe Mangwiro
Senior Business Reporter
AVERAGE hotel room occupancy across Zimbabwe in the first quarter of this year rose to 34 percent year on year from 14 percent in the same period last year, largely benefiting from the easing of the country’s Covid-19 restrictions. The occupancy level improved by 20 percent as all regions in the country experienced growth ranging from 7 percent to 37 percent with Bulawayo recording the highest growth to an occupancy rate above 50 percent. A buoyant tourism sector comes at a time Governments globally have loosened the Covid-19 travel and gathering restrictions with some authorities in Europe scrapping the mandatory requirement to wear masks in public places. In terms of foreign tourist arrivals in the period under review, 62,7 percent were from Africa, 20,9 from Europe while the other regions contributed 16,4 percent. “The buoyant results for the first quarter remain closely hinged to the resilience of the domestic market with the domestic clientele accounting for an average of 94,7 percent, which was hedged by MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conferencing and Exhibitions) business,” Treasury said in its first quarter report. International tourist arrivals stood at 126 955 during the quarter, an improvement when compared to the same period last year. “The positive performance was on account of a freer global travelling environment when compared to the whole of last year,” Treasury said. Hospitality Association of Zimbabwe (HAZ) Victoria Falls chapter chair Arnold Musonza told the Herald Finance and Business that the past two years were quite unique due to Covid-19 induced lockdowns which brought travel restrictions. Lower end hotels have continued to enjoy good business as the prices have become relatively more affordable to domestic travellers. “I have been quite surprised by the occupancy rates, particularly of the low end facilities. In Victoria Falls for example, the lower end hotels charging US$50 – US$100 a night are always quite full,” Mr Musonza said. In terms of foreign receipts, the sector is estimated to have generated about US$129,2 million during the period under review compared to US$54,2 million realised in the same period in 2021, reflecting a 138 percent increase. Tourism Business Council chairman Paul Matamisa said, “There definitely has been improvement in business since the lockdown was relaxed and recovery is on the way. Local business continues to outpace foreign tourists and they have supported mostly business in city centres like Harare and Bulawayo.” During the period, new airlines such as Eurowings Discover Airline began flying into Victoria Falls, South Africa’s Airlink added a new Harare – Durban route whilst fastjet Zimbabwe introduced the Victoria Falls -Kruger Mpumalanga route. 