The Herald LONDON. — New British Open champion Cameron Smith will reportedly become the latest player to drop a bombshell on the golfing world by heading a list of six players set to become the latest recruits for the controversial LIV breakaway competition. The Australian became the first player from his country to claim the famous Claret Jug since Greg Norman at Royal St George’s in 1993, pipping Rory McIlroy to glory on Sunday. His celebrations were soured, however, when he clashed with a British journalist about joining the rebel Saudi LIV tour just minutes after his stunning victory in St Andrews. Major players have and continue to be tempted away by the ludicrous sums of money on offer, with the breakaway being backed by US$2billion of Saudi money and the total prize money pot across eight events amounting to around £205million. There has been a frenzy of speculation around Smith and others — including Ryder Cup captain Henrik Stenson and English star Tommy Fleetwood — about their desire to join up with the Saudi-backed LIV Series. And now a report has added to the mounting whirlwind by claiming Smith (28) is set to follow up winning the most prestigious golf major by joining the breakaway tour headed by fellow Aussie Norman. It claims he is set to be joined by another countryman in Marc Leishman. Also among the fresh batch of rebels is Stenson, who is set to be stripped of the Ryder Cup captaincy, just two months after he was announced as the skipper for the match against the US in Italy next year. Stenson missed the cut at The Open by a single shot and would not be drawn on his future when asked about it on Friday, replying when asked about the makeup of his forthcoming schedule: “Undecided’’. However, Swedish outlet Expressen claim the 2016 Open winner was scheduled to arrive at Royal Troon yesterday, soon after which news is expected to follow that he will be the latest defector to LIV. English star Tommy Fleetwood is also reportedly set to defect, after a report in The Times in June suggested his wife and manager, Clare Craig, was at the Centurion Club last month. Double Masters winner Bubba Watson is also among the names being linked with the controversial LIV tour. Meanwhile, The Mirror claim last year’s Masters champion Hideki Matsuyama will finalise his future next month after being targeted by LIV Golf. The Japanese is reportedly considering his options after being approached by the Saudi-backed breakaway. But should the world No. 14 sign up to the breakaway, he would join fellow European stars Ian Poulter, Lee Westwood, Paul Casey, Martin Kaymer and record Cup points-scorer Sergio Garcia. Garcia confirmed on Sunday he will be formally resigning from the DP World Tour. Those who have also signed up to the mega-money tour include six-times major champion Mickelson — who is reportedly being paid £160m alone — former World No. 1s Dustin Johnson and Brooks Koepka, earning £104m and £125m respectively to sign up, and former US Open champion Bryson DeChambeau, also making £104m. — Mailonline