The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter REVITALISED CAPS United have received further boost after completing the signing of returning midfielder Blessing Sarupinda. The Warriors fringe player could be available for Makepekepe’s next Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match against Manica Diamonds at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday if, as anticipated, he receives his International Transfer Clearance (ITC) this week. Sarupinda has been training with the Green Machine for over two weeks now following the termination of his contract with South African top-flight side Sekhukhune United. The club administration has been running around to put his papers in order. And everything is virtually secured with the midfielder now set to feature for the Green Machine starting this weekend. The Lloyd Chitembwe-coached charges, who have spent the better part of this term struggling both on and off the field, are hanging precariously just above the drop zone. But after three games without tasting defeat from which they have pocketed five points, there is a sense of renewed optimism at Makepekepe. And the coming in of Sarupinda who, before his brief move to South Africa, was a vital pivot for the team, has helped lift the morale even higher. CAPS United chief executive officer, Charlie Jones, confirmed Sarupinda, who watched Makepekepe’s last match against Ngezi Platinum at Baobab last Saturday, is now officially with the team. He revealed Makepekepe will also add other players this week subject to them passing medicals and other tests. The two players referred could be Ali Sadiki and Tichaona Chipunza who are also training with the team. “We have a couple of players lined up to join the club (CAPS United). “Blessing Sarupinda has signed now and he will be able to play next weekend,” said Jones. “We hope to get his papers done this week and he will be thrust into action in our next game. He has been cleared and we are only waiting for his ITC. We are getting him out-rightly since his contract with his previous club in South Africa was terminated. “There are two more players who we are also angling to get this week.” The coming in of Sarupinda is expected to breathe some fresh air into the CAPS United creative hub. While he can also play in central midfield, the former Black Rhinos man is most effective when deployed as a play-maker. That role has mostly been played by Rodwell Chinyengetere. Although the 2017 and 2018 Soccer star of the Year award winner has been good at this position, he can give the team an extra attacking impetus when playing upfront. And even better for Makepekepe, Chinyengetere is expected to make a comeback from an injury lay-off for this weekend’s fixture against Manica Diamonds. The ex-FC Platinum forward has missed three straight games due to an injury but he is expected back into the fold this week. That means Chitembwe will have a better pool to select his squad given the difficulties he has encountered over the past weeks. Jones added that the Green Machine will continue recruiting experienced players along with young and upcoming talent as Makepekepe angle to be competitive again. “CAPS United is a big club and we have taken in a lot of experienced players not old players like what some people would say. “They have helped us a lot and going forward we will always bring experienced players around young and upcoming talent. So maybe it’s a blessing in disguise to have these experienced players and now we will be bringing in young players to learn from them.” With the team now showing positive signs following a three-game undefeated streak, Chitembwe believes he has a solid base to build on as the season approaches the final third while reserving special mention for the Makepekepe die-hard faithful. “I am very excited with the spirit being shown by my players. It is something we can always depend on and build on going forward. “I would like to reserve special mention and appreciation to the fans. We have been going through a lot but they are always there for us, giving the team the much-needed support. We need them to support us, to rally behind us and they have done precisely that.”