The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter THE Premier Soccer League have fined FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza and Johanisi Nhumwa of Manica Diamonds US$1 250 each for breaching the league’s standing rules and regulations. Both gaffers, on separate occasions and venues, made irresponsible statements to the media accusing match officials of being biased against their respective clubs. Mapeza was an animated lot as his charges struggled to assert themselves in the goalless draw against Dynamos at the National Sports Stadium last Sunday. The gaffer rarely sat on the bench the entire game and often argued with the fourth official, like he always does when the heat is on. It wasn’t surprising when he appeared to apportion the blame on the referee Lawrence Zimondi after the match fizzled to a goalless stalemate. “It’s a point gained for us but there was nothing to talk about save for the soft free kicks that were given to Dynamos,” he ranted at the post match press briefing. “If we were going to concede, it was from the soft and unnecessary free kicks. From open play, Dynamos were never going to score against us. They never created opportunities, and the same thing with Dynamos. They didn’t have any opportunities. There was no football today,” FC Platinum maintained their grip at the top of the standings though but saw their lead being cut to three points by second-placed Chicken Inn who won their Bulawayo Derby against Bulawayo Chiefs. On the other hand, Nhumwa, was left fuming after his side was frustrated in their 1-1 draw against Herentals at Vhengere Stadium in Rusape on Saturday. Nhumwa’s charges, who at one point were leading the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League standings before they started dropping points, were on a two-match losing streak going into the match against Herentals. And they found themselves down after only 37 seconds after Tafadzwa Jim found the opener. Although Liberty Chakoroma restored parity in the 56th minute, the visitors, who played better than their hosts, held on for a draw. But Nhumwa, who is under a lot of pressure at the Mutare-based team apportioned the blame on referee Patrick Kalota. “This is not football. There is no officiating like this. Yes, we are going through a bad phase but that is not football,” said Nhumwa. And the two (Mapeza and Nhumwa), aware of the rules and regulations of the league have duly been fined. A statement dispatched by PSL confirmed the developments. “The Premier Soccer League has fined Manica Diamonds FC coach, Johanisi Nhumwa and FC Platinum coach, Norman Mapeza for breaching PSL Rules and Regulations following statements on match officiating they made in the media after the Castle Lager Matchday 21 fixtures played over the weekend,” read the statement. “The two were charged under the Order 13 of the PSL standing Orders Offences and Fines which makes it an offence where: “A player or official makes comments in the media or social media in which they imply bias, question the integrity or any comments which brings the League and /or its Sponsors into disrepute or are abusive, offensive and /or insulting… “The coaches have each been fined a sum of USD 1 250. The PSL advises clubs to make use of the official channels in lodging complaints against Match Officials.” 