The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter CAPS United coach Lloyd Chitembwe is sweating over his striker Rodwell Chinyengetere who could miss a third Castle Lager Premiership football game on the trot this weekend. The veteran gaffer needs a full house in terms of his arsenal ahead of Makepekepe’s visit to Ngezi Platinum Stars at Baobab on Saturday. The Green Machine appear to have rediscovered themselves after picking four points in their last two matches. They beat Harare City 2-1 last week before their resolute performance in a goalless draw against Black Rhinos in a game they played the last 22 minutes with 10-man after defender Marshall Machazane was red-carded. And Chitembwe would have wanted to have a full complement of his squad for the match against Ngezi Platinum. “Chinyengetere is still out injured and he could miss the match against Ngezi Platinum,” said Chitembwe. Chinyengetere has been out of action for the past two weeks with a calf injury, forcing Chitembwe to deploy youngster Tatenda Diego Makurumidze in his place. The latter played well in both Makepekepe’s 2-1 win over Harare City last week and their goalless draw against Black Rhinos over the weekend. But the two-time Soccer Star of the Year Chinyengetere’s absence has been felt in the engine room where he has created most of the scoring chances the Green Machine have fashioned this season. The former FC Platinum forward is training though but Chitembwe wouldn’t want to risk rushing him back into action at a time the games have become so intensive. That means, just like in the last two weeks, Makepekepe won’t be able to assemble a squad of 18 players. Meanwhile, the Green Machine are determined to reclaim their glory with chief executive officer, Charlie Jones, yesterday revealing they are negotiating with several players who could be unveiled at the club soon. Makepekepe’s first signing of the mid-season transfer window, Emmanuel Mandiranga, debuted against Black Rhinos. And Jones hinted yesterday that more players are on the way. “We have not yet concluded any deals but yes, we are in the process. We are talking to some players whom we will be unveiling in the next few days. We are really excited but we will only reveal the names once we are done with the agreements.” The club will have to galvanise their defence which has lost two members in Dennis Dauda, who was fired in May, and Jimmy Dzingai, who has requested to be transferred.