The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter CASTLE Lager Premier Soccer League leading goal-scorer William Manondo says he is more concerned with seeing his team CAPS United climb up the ladder than seeking individual glory. The forward notched his 12th goal of the season, a scotching volley in Makepekepe’s 2-2 draw against Ngezi Platinum at Baobab last Saturday. He tucked in beautifully from the penalty arch after being fed by Diego Makurumidze to cancel Ariel Makopa’s opener for the home side. Manondo, however, picked up a hamstring injury which would force him out in the second half of the match. And his beautiful story is especially unique, scoring 12 goals in 18 matches he has played for the Lloyd Chitembwe-coached team who themselves are one of those struggling the most in the league. Makepekepe have performed way below their high standards and their stalemate against Ngezi Platinum was only the third time they had avoided defeat following a run of seven consecutive defeats. CAPS United failed to score in six of those but Manondo still has a way of finding the target better than any other player in the league. The former Harare City player set himself a target of 20 goals this season and he is very much on track with 13 games before the season comes to a close. But winning the Golden Boot is not topping the striker’s priority list. Instead, he is worried about seeing his club pick wins and move up the Premiership standings. “I am happy to have scored another goal in the match against Ngezi Platinum, I give glory to the Almighty God. I am very happy for the team. It was not an easy game, we fought very hard and collected a point away from home. “Of course, we have gone for three matches without losing which is a positive for us but I think it’s not good enough,” said Manondo. “We need to be collecting maximum points, week in and week out. I am not looking at it from an individual point of view. I am very much concerned with the team. If I happen to be scoring goals and helping the team in the process, so be it. “I am going to work very hard, if I can assist my teammates, I will be happy, if I intercept dangerous balls and win duels, that’s for the team. My heart is on the team, we need to be where we are supposed to do as CAPS United. “Given where we are coming from, I think going for three straight matches without a defeat is a big plus for us. I think we will get it right, I know there is still a long way to go but if we continue working hard collectively with my teammates we can only do better. “As for my 20-goal target, I am very confident I can achieve that. All I need is to keep working hard and keep scoring, I’m sure I can reach my goal.” Chicken Inn’s Brian Muza is on 10 goals while Nyasha Chintuli of Manica Diamonds and Whawha’s Jayden Barake have scored nine and eight goals respectively.