The Herald LONDON. — Cristiano Ronaldo has told Manchester United he wants to leave. Old Trafford chiefs are standing firm that the Portuguese star is going nowhere and is not for sale. But United legend Ronaldo (37) has asked them to green light any ‘’acceptable’’ bids. And that will put Chelsea on red alert as they hunt a striker to fill the gap left by Romelu Lukaku’s departure to Inter Milan. The bombshell comes after a first week of pre-season training, where new Red Devils boss Erik ten Hag has earned rave reviews. Ronaldo, who is yet to return to Carrington, is unhappy at the prospect of playing a first season in almost two decades without Champions League football. And he does not believe United’s squad are capable of mounting a title bid. Sources in Portugal insist Ronaldo, who has 12 months left on his deal plus a one-year option, has not demanded a transfer and has no intention of doing so. But United are refusing to deny he wants away. Ronaldo feels he can play at the highest level until 40 and wants another crack at Champions League glory. He was unhappy at United’s dismal season after his return from Juventus for £13million. He has played in Europe’s top club competition every season since he left Sporting Lisbon 19 years ago. But a sixth-placed finish with United left him in the Europa League. Sporting inquired but his £480 000-a-week wages mean there is little chance of a return. That has left Todd Boehly’s Chelsea, Bayern Munich or return to the Italian Serie A as the only likely serious destinations. United boss Ten Hag will not stand in his players’ way if they want to leave. Ironically Ronaldo’s unrest comes at the end of Ten Hag’s first week of pre-season training that sources insist has been a huge success. Ronaldo’s desire to leave United will be music to the ears of their league rivals Chelsea. The West Londoners are keen to make the forward their marquee signing this summer and have been keeping tabs on his situation with United. New Blues chief Boehly recently met with Ronaldo’s agent – Jorge Mendes – to discuss a host of topics, including a potential move for the sporting icon. — The Sun.