The Herald Peter Tanyanyiwa Youth Interactive Correspondent Former Midlands State University student Joseph Jayden Tembo, who took the entrepreneurship route and started his own business, Olwys Studio,  soon after finishing university has urged the young people to challenge themselves and take advantage of the opportunities that are being presented by the Government. In an interview Tembo encouraged the young people to take advantage of the youth empowerment drive, where the Government is encouraging young people to start their own businesses and create employment. He urged them not to take the easy route, but to always challenge themselves. “I want to urge all the young people of today to challenge themselves, by the time they leave college-university they should already know what they want to become in life. Don’t choose the easy road of looking for employment or something along those lines, start your own label and create employment,” he said. “As Zimbabweans we are fortunate that we have a Government that supports entrepreneurship and the empowerment of young people, so let’s take advantage of this opportunity. My biggest motivation is to keep challenging myself, I treat life like one long university education, where Ican learn more every day. There’s no doubt that running a business takes a lotof time. “The only way to be satisfied in your life is to do work that you truly believe in,” He recently opened his second studio in Zvishavane after Harare has grown in leaps and bounds. Olwys Studios has created employment for local people. Tembo expressed his gratitude to his mentor Willard Magombedze, well known as Slimaz. Owlys Studio was recently hired to cover a wedding in Randburg and Krugerdrop for the TV programme “Our Perfect Wedding” South Africa’. “Owlys Studios aims to help the young generation in recording music, adverts, television shows, documentary films, weddings and conferences among other events. Here are his pointers for success: Take the risk Build a great team No one succeeds in business alone, and those who try will lose to a great team every time. Build your own great teamto bolster your success. Hire character Plan for raising capital. I have this advice for upcoming entrepreneurs: “It’s almost always harder to raise capital than you thought it would be, and it always takes longer. So plan for that.” Know your goals 