The Herald Enacy Mapakame The Agricultural Marketing Authority (AMA) and the University of Zimbabwe (UZ) have signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MOU) aimed, among other agricultural-related aspects, to develop value chains for the export market. This represents a major milestone in the country’s thrust for market-driven agriculture which is a panacea for agricultural transformation. Production of the value chains is set to commence in August 2022. The UZ, as a higher institute of learning, seeks to operationalise the tenets of the Education 5.0 framework through strategic partnerships with various institutions in the agricultural value chain systems. AMA is the national authority that regulates, supervises, facilitates and foster the development of the production and marketing of agricultural produce in Zimbabwe. The two institutions, realising their strategic positioning in the attainment of Vision 2030 through National Development Strategy (NDS1), have joined hands to set up a learning centre of excellence at the UZ farm which also houses the UZ Agro-Industrial Park. AMA chief executive officer Mr Clever Isaya said: “This partnership epitomises the envisaged agricultural transformation under the Agriculture Food Systems Transformation Strategy which is a key enabler of the National Development Strategy 1. “Export earnings are vital for the achievement of the Vision 2030 hence the need for such strategic alliances which will certainly be replicated with other like-minded institutions.” The partnership entails the production of export-oriented specific value chains such as fine beans, mange tout peas, and butternut among others. Facilitation of the Global Gap Certification of the UZ will ensure the export of these crops and development of new innovative technologies to spur agricultural growth. The AMA will play a key role in unlocking the export market potential for these value chains. The long-term goal for the partnership is to acquire the Global Gap Certification for the UZ farm that will then give the Agro-Industrial Park export status and in turn benefits the other producers downstream. Zimbabwe is pushing for export-oriented growth supported mainly by agriculture and mining. Exports for the full year to December 31, 2021 at US$6,03 billion, was a 37,3 percent increase compared to US$4,39 billion recorded in the same period in 2020. The US$6 billion-dollar mark, breached by local exports, was the highest ever recorded figure. The national trade promotion body, ZimTrade is also undertaking initiatives at grass-root levels to grow exports from agriculture and its value chains as initiatives to boost the country’s foreign currency earnings. Some of the programmes include value addition of traditional wild fruits and herbs ready for the export markets as the world over is becoming health conscious and appreciating the importance of traditional foods. There is high demand for organic foods that are high in nutrients and low in calories. 