The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ON a good day, when the script is flowing to their liking, they are extolling the coach and his team to the skies and singing their voices hoarse in absolute appreciation. But the very next day, when the chips are down, the song changes from praise to demonisation and crude swearing, and they desperately want to see his back. Then the following day he is not quite sure what to expect. These are the extremes that Tonderai Ndiraya has had to deal with as Dynamos head coach. The DeMbare fans, who comprise some of the hard to please hordes in the domestic football circles, are quite an enigma. Ndiraya was left spellbound by the energy and passion he saw in Bulawayo last week when the fans stood up for the team, from the first minute to the last, as DeMbare went on to thrash Chicken Inn 3-0 at Barbourfields. Barely a few weeks ago, the same supporters were denouncing him and jeering the players at the National Sports Stadium when they played a goalless draw against Triangle. The DeMbare boo boys even had a go at teenage forward Luke Musikiri, to the extent the 18-year old could not find the love and comfort to enable him to settle in his first start for the Glamour Boys. DeMbare fans want to see their team always winning. Ndiraya, however, believes things could be changing. The trick is to win more games. “We had a very difficult relationship in the past but I think after our engagement before the game against FC Platinum where we implored them to support the players, particularly those who are new in the team, we saw a changed lot. “I must say I appreciate the support they gave us when we played FC Platinum. I must say that’s where it all started, we saw a united support base and we hope that coming back here in Harare we can get the same tremendous support we got in Bulawayo. “It’s been difficult but hopefully they can rally behind the team and help us get the result we want,” said Ndiraya. Dynamos are set to host Bulawayo Chiefs at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. The Glamour Boys are still in contention for the title despite falling eight points behind log leaders FC Platinum in the race. DeMbare shot themselves in the foot when they experienced a difficult phase recently and could not win a match in four outings while their main title rivals were winning consistently. But Ndiraya believes the win at Chicken Inn has given them fresh hope. “We’ve been in a very difficult phase as a team but I’m glad that we are slowly getting out of the phase. Of course we are not really out yet but we are slowly getting out of that phase. “The result last weekend against a very good Chicken Inn side, in Bulawayo for that matter, really gave us a lot of confidence. “It is our hope that we continue on that trajectory. It is our wish that we do well on Sunday (against Bulawayo Chiefs) before our home crowd. “We had a good reception last week in Bulawayo so we’re hoping to have another good reception from the Harare fans,” said Ndiraya. Defender Emmanuel Jalai is set to miss the game because of injury. Jalai was ruled out after he failed to recover from the knock he suffered at Barbourfields last week. The diminutive fullback joined four other players in the DeMbare casualty ward, as the quartet of Brendon Mpofu, Shadreck Nyahwa, Ralph Kawondera and King Nadolo are still nursing injuries that ruled them out of the last outing.