The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter THE just-ended Africa Women Cup of Nations in Morocco saw a big leap by the southern Africa countries with South Africa being crowned the champions and Zambia finishing third at the tournament. They both qualified for the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup to be co-hosted by Australia and New Zealand. The top four countries from the tournament qualified for the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup. While we celebrate the achievements by the two teams from Southern African Region, back home in Zimbabwe the question is what happened to the Mighty Warriors, who at some point were regarded as one of the leading teams, alongside South Africa? The two represented Africa at the 2016 Olympic Games in Brazil. Zimbabwe were ahead of most teams in the region, including Zambia, who will be at next year’s World Cup, and Botswana. Botswana made their maiden appearance at the continental football showpiece in Morocco. They beat Zimbabwe on an away goals rule in the final qualifying round when the tie ended 3-3 on aggregate. Zimbabwe lost the first leg of that tie 3-1 at the National Sports Stadium, before they won 2-0 in Francistown but the damage had already been done. Having rose to become the first ever football team from Zimbabwe to qualify for the Olympics Games in Brazil in 2016 where they competed with some of the world’s best such as Germany and Canada, one would have hoped that something could have been done to build on that achievement for the advancement of the team. Instead the Mighty Warriors have taken a knock since then. The women’s game in the country appears to be an afterthought, and not much has been done to ensure there is growth by ZIFA and the various stakeholders. Mighty Warriors captain Emma Msipa said while she is happy for Banyana Banyana for their historic triumph in Morocco last weekend, it’s painful to realise how much the senior women’s side has slipped back. “Truly speaking it really hates, it’s painful because I still remember from 2011 to 2016 we were better than South Africa and even South Africa knew that Zimbabwe is a threat. But things changed. “I was following the games, and as I was watching, I would say we were supposed to be there because Zimbabwe is blessed with talented players, good players. “I am really happy for South Africa for winning the Women’s African Cup of Nations. I am proud of them for representing the Southern African Region. They brought the trophy to the Southern African Region. It shows that football is now improving in Southern Africa. “There is better competition because we all know that major tournaments were won by West Africa, Nigeria in particular. So I am really happy for South Africa, I am happy for them,” said Msipa. Msipa said lack of support over the years has led to the deterioration of the game in Zimbabwe and the Covid-19 pandemic didn’t help the situation either. “We need a competitive league. We need sponsors, we need motivation… For the game to develop our league has to be functional. That’s how we can get even great players,” said Msipa. Another seasoned player Marjory Nyaumwe, who was also part of the Mighty Warriors team that graced the Olympics in 2016, said the problem lies with the structures as well as the absence of meaningful support for women’s football in this country. “We do not have junior teams be it boys or girls. We depend on senior teams only. We need to have Under-15s, Under-17s, then Under-23s; and then build from there. We have to start to rebuild from the grassroots for the next generation. “We do have the talent but we do not have the support and motivation that other national teams receive from their countries. We are looked down upon, and other players end up leaving because they do not gain anything from football. “We should be treated the same way the men’s team is treated. Give us enough time and adequate resources, we can do better,” said Nyaumwe. Issues of remuneration and players’ welfare have always been an issue when it comes to the Mighty Warriors. A former official, who was part of the Mighty Warriors’ structures when they were at their peak, pointed out how the absence of sponsorship for the women’s league derailed efforts that had been made by clubs to groom players, contributing to the national senior team. She also cited the casual approach when it comes to the women’s team. “The problem is most clubs from institutions do not groom players, it is the clubs owned by individuals that groomed players but they were now struggling because there is no sponsorship. “Support is lacking to individual clubs that groom players because even right now as they play in regional games, they struggle to fulfil their fixtures. “We used to have LM Auctioneers tournament, it helped a lot because league clubs would meet and national coaches were invited and they would identify players. “Also back then we went as far as Germany and Uruguay at some point as part of preparing the national team and we used to beat South Africa. But that’s no longer happening. We can still have friendlies within our region.” Zimbabwe are currently suspended by FIFA from any football activities and the former official believes taking advantage of suspension to rebuild may lead to some changes in the future. This was the second consecutive time that Zimbabwe was not part of the show at the Women’s Nations Cup, having last appeared at the tournament in 2016. In 2020 it was cancelled because of the Covid-19 outbreak.