The Herald Walter Nyamukondiwa Kariba Bureau Imagine having a succulent picnic lunch under a stretch tent on a serene beach with only the humming and chatter of birds cheering as you eat while seated on cushions. Everything is stripped to the barest minimal, but retaining the sophistication that only helps to connect you to the hotel, lodge and home you would have come from. For at least three hours you are disconnected from the rest of the world as the beach is buffeted by water and a mountain making it a perfect hideout, as there is no possibility of uninvited guests crashing on the rendezvous. This is Kariba’s newest addition to its repertoire of activities which have predominantly been land and water based, without the sand experience. A novel activity has been introduced fusing intimacy, exotic and indigenous cuisines that bring memorable experiences on the shores of the mighty Lake Kariba. The beach and lunch will calm you down after an adrenalin pumping speed boat ride from the harbour which can be anything between 30 and 45 minutes. On arrival you are welcomed like a king or queen that you are with a glass of your favourite drink before walking on a red carpet to a well decorated stretch tent. An experience of a lifetime! Then off to the treasure hunt or other sporting activities such as volleyball if you have the time for it or you dive into ready set cooler bags. It is also like a treasure hunt as you do not know exactly what is in the cooler bag. Opening it and discovering its contents adds to the fun. The menus carry exotic names creating an aura of mysticism. It comprises a starter dubbed Charcuterie Box comprising a variety of cold meats, main course with a choice of deep fried stuffed sadza balls, garlic and parmesan potato cakes among others. Then your dessert. Add to that a treasure hunt using GPS listed through a Geocache application allowing the finder to log in their name and details which can be shared with others across the world. You get a clue with a brief description of the location and the GPS on your phone leads you within a five metre radius of the hidden treasure and you have to rely on the description to zero in on it. So much fun! This has attracted the attention of those who want small and intimate beach weddings and those who just want to have an afternoon picnic within small groups. It all starts with a speed boat ride to take you to beach, making the journey an experience of its own. Swirling in the water at high speed is not for the faint hearted as the boat which can take up to eight passengers starts with a low howl as it leaves the Marineland Harbour. At this stage nerves are calm and even the boat glides slowly, maintaining a perfect equilibrium before it suddenly tilts at the back as it gathers momentum when the engine blades plough into the water. The resultant streak of water as it obliges the might of the primed machine ignites adrenalin, while the wind starts as a breeze before it turns to a full blown gust on your face. Sounds like the life of the rich and famous in distant lands, seas and oceans? Think again! This is what awaits you as you explore Kariba, aptly named Zimbabwe’s best kept secret. Operator, Sunsports administrative assistant Miss Tracy said the activities were aimed at diversifying Kariba’s rich tapestry including parasailing, quad biking and the now familiar boat cruises. “We wanted an intimate getaway and initially wanted to make it an island activity, but settled for a beach instead because it is nearer making it easier to put together the logistics for an unforgettable experience for our visitors,” she said.