The Herald NORMAN, Oklahoma — Drexel’s Jeffrey Cunningham and Tafadzwa Nyamukondiwa of Zimbabwe have been named All-Americans by the Black College Golf Coaches Association on Wednesday. Cunningham won the award after finishing his career at Drexel with his best season. The fifth-year student ended the 2021-22 season with a 72.1 scoring average, the seventh lowest total in Drexel school history.  In addition, Cunningham became the first African American to advance to the BMW Philadelphia Amateur Championship in June. Nyamukondiwa, one of the newer Dragons on the roster, made an immediate impact on the team. The junior transfer won the Yale Spring Invitational and shot 70 (-2) in the second round of the CAA Championships at Dataw. Black college golfers across all divisions will now be honoured with the BCGCA Awards thanks to a partnership with the Black College Golf Coaches Association and Golf Coaches Association of America. College of Charleston’s Kieron Van Wyk earned the Adrian Stills Award as the Black College Golfer of the Year after becoming the first Black golfer in Colonial Athletic Association history to win medalist honours at the league championship. Howard’s Gregory Odom Jr. was named HBCU Golfer of the Year and picked up consecutive wins to end his season at the MEAC Championship and PGA Works Championship. A pair of teammates highlight the BCGCA All-America Team with Drexel’s Cunningham and Nyamukondiwa and Howard’s Odom Jr. and Everett Whiten Jr., as well as Van Wyk, Javan Johnson (Taylor), Steve Kibare (Dalton State), Quinn Riley (Duke), Kristopher Stiles (San Jose State) and Troy Taylor II (Michigan State). Van Wyk earned his third honour as the BCGCA Outstanding Freshman, with Kci Lindskog (Texas Southern) as the HBCU Outstanding Freshman. The pair were also named to the BCGCA All-Freshmen Team alongside Florida A&M teammates Tyler Partee and Miles Taylor and Chicago State’s Camron Jones. VCU’s Andy Walker was named BCGCA Coach of The Year, with Gary Grandison from Texas Southern earning HBCU Coach of the Year honours. — drexeldragons.com.