The Herald Arts Reporter Organisers of Jah Prayzah’s current tour of Canada are on cloud nine. Despite being new comers in the game, Mike  and Malcom Viriri of Biggz Entertainment said they were living their dream. The two siblings are sons of Canada based radio personality and events management guru, Slice T. This Friday, the siblings host Jah Prayzah at the National Event Venue in Toronto. After the Toronto leg, the siblings take Jah Prayzah to Edmonton on Saturday for another gig. In an interview with this publication from his base in the North American country, Mike said they felt happy hosting Jah Prayzah. “Of course it’s our first show in the Canada  and we feel happy that our father has blessed us to start holding these shows on our own,” he said. “It is always been his desire to supporting us kids in any direction especially the area he is well versed in, he remains our greatest role model as children. “His habits, career, interests has also determined our interests.” As beginners in the game, Mike is brother Malcom opened up on where they got their capital. “We are no longer kids, we are now young adults who go to work. “We are hard working young men and our father has always told us there’s no magic in acquiring cash, hard cash is the best. “He told us that if you do easy cash it will quickly take you out so there is need to enjoy the process and have a footprint of your success,” he explained. Despite being artists in their own right how,  the two siblings were determined to strike a balance. “It’s a win, win venture where one feeds of the other, in the game of entertainment you need numbers a great following, delivery system and quality, then the rest is history,” added Malcom. Since music promotion and events management is regarded as gambling, Malcom said they were ready for the challenge. “Losses and profits are part of every business identity. “How you lose and take that as a lesson is very important in this business. “Once you experience losses, it is important to know how to package your event well next time, have sponsors and partners in the project on board. “Luckily, our Canadian Government supports arts and entertainment so that they help promoters to losses easily,” he said. Meanwhile, Slice T, who has since settled in Canada, has been in the for ages doing mainly promotion. He has hosted an array of top Zimbabwean musicians overseas including the late national hero, Oliver “Tuku”  Mtukudzi. He has since passed the baton to his young sons who are doing well. After Jah Prayzah , they are set to host other Zimbabwean  stars like Freeman, Poptain, Jah Signal among others .