The Herald Ellina Mhlanga–Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Olympic Committee held their annual meeting in Harare yesterday with the board sharing with their members the work they have done since they came into office last year and highlighting some of the critical milestones that have been made. The AGM was held at the Rainbow Towers. Among the major highlights from the meeting were the Tokyo 2020 Games, which were the major activity for 2021, the approval of four co-opted board members, the approval of former ZOC president Admire Masenda to be an honorary life president and constitutional amendments on qualifications for board members. Zimbabwe fielded five athletes at the Tokyo Games and in his message ZOC president, Thabani Gonye, said more needs to be done to change the course. “We know these Games were held in 2021, mainly having been moved from 2020 due to the Covid, that was pandemic and was at a level that was unprecedented. “But I think what is key and important of note, was the notation and the concerns of our decline in standards in being able to qualify athletes to the Olympic Games. “Prior to the departure of the team, there obviously were concerns and discussions on why a nation like Zimbabwe is only qualifying five athletes. “We need to do something now to change course and stop feeling sorry for ourselves. We need to start doing things differently with calculated risks as fortune favours the brave! “It is also not the time to blame and point fingers at each other but introspect, reflect, be frank with each other and start to do the work as sport stakeholders taking our spaces and playing our part,” said Gonye. Gonye shared insights on their 2021 to 2025 strategic plan. Among the focus areas of the strategic plan expected to address the sporting performance include athlete development and support. “One of the key highlights in the focus areas of the strategic plan is to do with athlete development and support because that’s always the key when we qualify athletes or either when we are going to participate as members and teams. “People are looking at, and gearing just to go and participate. But we are saying no, there is something that needs to happen with a guided vision and deliberate effort of making sure that we qualify teams that are going to compete rather than to participate,” said Gonye. Preparations for the Paris 2024 Games have begun with 10 athletes having received the Olympic Solidarity athletes’ scholarships and the chef de mission having been appointed. The ZOC president said they are looking at qualifying 10 athletes and apart from the beneficiaries of the Olympic Solidarity scholarships, they appealing for partners, sponsors and the Government to come in and support in adding to what they have already started so that more athletes have an opportunity to qualify. ZOC chief executive, Stephen Mudawarima, presented the report on the activities of the executive board. The AGM approved the co-option of four board members — Abigail Mnikwa, Farayi Mangwende, Israel Gerrie Guvamombe and Rick Fulton. Yesterday’s AGM was attended by Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Minister, Kirsty Coventry, in her role as the International Olympic Committee Member, ZOC board members and affiliated national federations among other delegates. The delegates observed a minute of silence in honour of former ZOC treasurer, Tony Salthouse, who passed away on Friday. Prior to the AGM, the ZOC forum was held on Saturday at Prince Edward School where several topics, ranging from a public presentation of the ZOC strategic plan to an anti-doping education awareness session, inclusivity and gender as well as long-term high performance programme, were presented. The forum presents an educative and interactive platform for ZOC and National Federations to share and discuss critical issues.