The Herald Arts Reporter FILM and television production should have a heritage feel as they ought to portray what happens in society, renowned actor Patrice Muzvondiwa has said Muzvondiwa, who stars as “Tebogo” in popular drama series “Kuchina” said the Covid-19 pandemic gave him a lesson on drama and culture. In an interview with The Herald Arts, the actor said: “If I am a father in a drama, it should be seen and represents our culture well. I actually research on how fathers, for example, are relating and being seen in society and I play the part. “Remember, we are now in different times, but our culture remains the same. It’s situational. A drama should show the importance of heritage and culture to be more authentic, that is my thinking.” Muzvondiwa said in the past two years, the film and television sectors had not been the same due to Covid-19. “The Covid-19 pandemic affected me a lot because it was two years of madness,” he said. “We used to work with the people, but now we were in isolation, lockdowns and quarantine issues. We were like in open prison, we could not shoot or do rehearsals. Gigs were cancelled. “However, I am glad that we managed to shoot a production called ‘Chisara’ during that period and we had to camp at the same place because of restrictions.” Muzvondiwa said apart from being stuck at home for the past two years, he learnt about online productions and how beneficial they were. “I later resorted to creating content online as it was giving me direct income,” he said. “It was to our advantage as artists and a simple way to market our Zimbabwean stories world over.” Asked how he sees his career, Muzvondiwa said it was developing and he was learning from some of the gurus, but his dream was to be in Hollywood. “Being an actor is an in born thing from school to church, I have been involved in plays,” he said. “I take inspiration from legends like Eddie Sandifolo, Antony Tongani, Charles Mzemba and Stella January, among others. “Having worked with different local and international directors was my dream. I see myself as the next big thing to happen in the industry just to give me time and I also encourage and urge those who have started before us to help us and open more doors for us out there. They have the connections.” Muzvondiwa is working on the “Shonaland Series” and “The Real Madam boss” film. “A lot has changed in the industry,” he said. “As we continue to move with the times, we are getting there as an industry. We should be at a stage whereby acting becomes a career not a hobby, it must be treated like a normal profession.”