The Herald Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe senior men’s cricket team returned to training this week as they look to turn the tables against visiting Bangladesh in a limited overs tour that begins in Harare this Saturday. The hosts are in high spirits after sealing their place at this year’s ICC Men’s T20 World Cup following a successful run in the global qualifier hosted in Bulawayo recently. They had only one week to rest before resuming camp in Harare, ahead of the three-match T20I series that begins this Saturday and the One Day International competition that follows afterwards. Zimbabwe have been struggling in the last few years but the arrival of head coach Dave Houghton, for his second stint with the side, has ushered in fresh hope. But can they overcome the jinx that has seen them play second fiddle to the opponents? Records between the two countries favour Bangladesh, who have dominated in all formats of the game. The Tigers have been on the ascendancy in the last two decades and enjoy supremacy in head-to-head statistics. To put it in perspective, Zimbabwe have never won a T20I series against Bangladesh. The two countries have played six T20I series since 2006, with Bangladesh winning three while the other three ended in draws. A total of 16 matches have been played in the shortest version of the game and Bangladesh have won 11 while Zimbabwe have been victorious five times. The bigger picture shows the Chevrons have been going south while the Tigers have continued on the up. Zimbabwe and Bangladesh will play three T20I games on Saturday, Sunday and Tuesday at Harare Sports Club. The two sides will then lock horns in as many ODIs set for August 5, 7 and 10 at the same venue. A total of 78 games have been played between the two countries since the turn of the millennium when the Tigers got their ODI status. Zimbabwe have won only 28 games while losing 50. The Chevrons have more to play for as they have to break a 19-match losing streak against the Tigers which spans nine years. The last time that Zimbabwe won an ODI game against Bangladesh was in May 2013 when they came back from behind to record their last series win against the Asians at Queens Sports Club. Bangladesh Squads for Zimbabwe tour: T20I: Munim Shahriar, Anamul Haque Bijoy, Liton Das, Afif Hossain, Nurul Hasan Sohan(C), Mahedi Hasan, Nasum Ahmed, Taskin Ahmed, Shoriful Islam Mustafizur Rahman, Hasan Mahmud, Mosaddek Hossain, Najmul Hossain Shanto, Mehedy Hasan Miraz, Parvez Hossain Emon ODI: Tamim Iqbal C), Anamul Haque Bijoy, Liton Das, Mushfiqur Rahim, Mahmudullah Riyad, Afif Hossain, Nurul Hasan Sohan, Nasum Ahmed, Taskin Ahmed, Shoriful Islam,Mustafizur Rahman, Hasan Mahmud,Mosaddek Hossain,Najmul Hossain Shanto Mehedy Hasan Miraz, Taijul Islam.