The Herald Latwell Nyangu Youth Interactive Writer The academic journey has some ups and downs but you can never lose focus on your individual goals. You can’t let yourself lose because of lack of effort. The beautiful thing about learning is that no one can take it away from you. Life as a student is not as rosy as it seems. All those late nights spent in the library or the many hours spent doing research can have a toll on a student. It gets worse when you do not get the grades you feel you deserve. However, you should not give up on your quest to get an education. Fellow students, remember we left home to change home. Some of us have even gone beyond the borders, some have travelled distances away from home in search of academics so that they change home. The moment I went to college, I was consumed with swirls of intense emotions—anxieties, excitement, fear, and joy, all mixed together in one little body. I was crossing the country on a new adventure, filled with hopes and dreams, seeking something I could not define or put into words. This feeling engulfed most of the students, as they embarked on a challenging journey. And the journey means we are far away from home to change home. There is a time, relatives and family celebrate our breakthrough to university. Some of our parents have sold cows, goats, cars and many valuables to make sure we attend college. The sacrifice they made for us, is to see us achieving our goals but most importantly change our homes. Most of us came from different places and met at school or college. The purpose is one, we have to change the humble beginnings. Your journey to success will also depend on you knowing your potential and believing in it. This will help in motivating you to prove to yourself that you can do it. Not everyone came from affluence, but we all start from somewhere. Some of us have left rural homes in pursuit of academic success so as to change where we are coming from. Isu vamwe came to Harare due to academic pursuit, otherwise we could have been there for longer periods. I call this a ‘mission’ but my heart is bleeding for students who have lost their way, that is,  losing the ‘mission’. Fellow students, don’t forget that you left home to change home. Back home they are waiting for you to change the situation at home. The story of many students who are losing their way has reached alarming levels yet their parents are back home, waiting for results. Last week, I had a guardian who was worried about the way how their female student was behaving, she had changed. She was coming home late, being arrogant. Her utterances were that the family had sacrificed for her to be at college. She forgot the mission that at home, the family was banking on her success. Before you decide to abandon the mission, think over it. Is your behaviour going to change the home you left? Growing up, we were told, school changes life but however, as time moves on, some find other means to ends meet. But if you have an opportunity to be at college, bear in mind that you have to change where you are coming from. Most of the students start well and end up losing the plot. Any student dreams of accomplishing great things and to achieve that we have to stay focused. Being at college is not a walk in the park but the result matters most in life. Challenges are what make life interesting. Overcoming them is what makes life meaningful. Many parents have taken us to college but if the student is not determined, it’s difficult to achieve the best. As said, you can take the donkey to the river but you can’t force it to drink. Aim for success, not perfection. Never give up your right to be wrong, because then you will lose the ability to learn new things and move forward with your life. Previously I wrote about thanking those parents or guardians who pay for our fees. But the main thing to consider is valuing the purpose why you are at college. We left home to change homes since we both started from zero to something. Rome was not built overnight ,but everything has some stages. We can’t be rich overnight unless otherwise. We both know, the moment we go to school, we want to change our backgrounds. Never forget the mission. We go to college to change where we are coming from. But the moment most of us set foot in college, life changes. We begin to enjoy the short term moments. We have been somewhere and we have to better our lives back home. Never lose purpose in life. Going to university is a sign of achievement to many of us. While to some it may  just be part of life, for some, it is the  breaking of a the jinx in the family. Do not disappoint them back home. You have to be proud of what you are achieving by being in university.