The Herald ENGLISH side, South North Cricket Club, have welcomed Zimbabwe national women’s cricket team star Josephine Nkomo after she recently became the first women’s overseas professional to sign for the club. The 25-year-old Nkomo, who was signed by the club early this year, finally linked up with her new teammates last week following a delay due to visa complications. And the Kwekwe-born star has wasted no time in making an impact at the South-North Bulls, where in addition to being a star player on the team, she has also been working as coach of the club’s women’s side. In a statement on their official website, North South Cricket Club officially welcomed Nkomo together with South African first-class cricket player Tshepang Dithole. “We are delighted to welcome Josephine Nkomo and Alvin Tsepang to South North Bulls as our overseas coaches. They arrived on 22 June and June 24 after overcoming visa delays. We are delighted they are with us, very much hope they both enjoy being at South North and are confident their stay will be mutually beneficial,” the North East Premier League club said. Nkomo has wasted no time in settling well at her new club. She made her debut for the South North Cricket Club on June 25 against Haydon Bridge and took her first wicket a week later against Haltwhistle in a mean spell of 8-1-12-1. Kwekwe-born Nkomo is a right-hand bat and right-arm medium-pace bowler, who debuted for her franchise team in 2009 when she was only 12 years old and eventually made the Zimbabwe U19 national team the same year. She has made tremendous strides since, and in 2012 was selected for the Lady Chevrons side, making her debut during the T20 Africa Regional Qualifiers. Nkomo has played over 50 games across both T20 and 50 over formats for the Chevrons. She has excelled with both bat and ball — her versatility has made her an integral part of the team. Nkomo has also enjoyed success abroad, playing Women’s club cricket in South Africa for Randburg in 2019/20. In her 3 matches, she scored 2 centuries amongst 359 runs, alongside 6 wickets for good measure. She was unanimously named the Player of the Series. In recent years, Nkomo has starred for her franchise, the Rhinos. Last summer (2020/21), she was named the Women’s Fifty50 Challenge “Batter” and “Player” of the tournament courtesy of 294 runs at 98 and 15 wickets at 10.93. — ZimSportLive