The Herald Loice Vavi Health Matters Suicidal ideation means having serious thoughts about taking your own life. There are two types of suicidal ideation, passive and active. Suicidal ideation is one of the symptoms of both major depression and the depression found in bipolar disorder, but it may also occur in people with other mental illnesses or no mental illness at all. Prevalence The lifetime prevalence of suicidal ideation for the general world population is about 9 percent and about 2 percent within a 12-month period. According to Ministry of Health and Child Care Survey  adults ages 18 and older had thoughts about suicide, with the highest prevalence among adults ages 18 to 35 years. Recently suicidal ideation has been prevalent in children from 8 years to 16 year-old. This awakening has led to this sensitive topic to be discussed from primary school level. For people with mental health disorders, the rate is significantly higher. The exact numbers are unclear, but since suicidal ideation is a symptom of mental health disorders like major depression and bipolar disorder, the problem exists at a far greater percentage in these populations. Suicide is on the rise, with half of the provinces in the Zimbabwe reporting more than 20 percent increase since 2010 and nearly all the rest reporting increased rates since then. Suicide is the 10th leading cause of death in the Zimbabwe and the second leading cause of death among 10- to 34-year-olds. Women attempt suicide more often than men, but men are successful about three to four times more often than women. Symptoms Warning signs that you or a loved one are thinking about or contemplating suicide include: Be aware that passive suicidal ideation is wishing that you could die in your sleep or in an accident rather than by your own hand, is not necessarily any less serious than active suicidal ideation. It can quickly turn active and it most certainly has a blend of active and passive components. If your loved one admits that they are thinking about suicide, make sure they are safe. Be there for them if and when they need you. If the situation is serious, you may need to involve your loved one’s doctor or mental health professional or perhaps call a suicide hotline for advice or help. Keep checking on them until you feel certain that they’re in a safe state of mind again. Causes Many different factors can contribute to suicidal ideation. Often these thoughts strike when you’re feeling hopeless and out of control in your life and/or like it has no meaning or purpose. These feelings may be due to circumstances like relationship problems, trauma, substance use, a crisis of some sort, pressure at work, a physical health issue, or financial difficulties. Having any mental health disorder such as depression, bipolar disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), or anxiety can also contribute. Risk factors and warning signs of suicide There are a variety of risk factors for suicidal ideation which include: – Diagnosis If one is experiencing symptoms of depression and are having suicidal thoughts, your doctor will likely give you a medical exam and ask you to take a questionnaire that may include the following questions: Treatment If one has suicidal thoughts but there is no crisis, your therapist may recommend psychotherapy, medications, and lifestyle changes that can help reduce the risk of suicide. If one starts experiencing thoughts of suicide after taking an antidepressant, contact your mental health care professional immediately. Antidepressants have been linked to an increase in suicidal thoughts. Life is precious, preserve life!!!!!!! For more information, contact Loice.vavi@zimpapers.co.zw or 0772224231 