The Herald BOURNEMOUTH. — Starlet Jordan Zemura is keen to carry on repaying the faith shown in him by Scott Parker and the Cherries coaching staff – by giving “them more next year.” Whilst the Zimbabwean international was handed his first-team debut by Jason Tindall in 2020, last campaign was a breakthrough season for the 22-year-old, seeing the left-back make 33 appearances as Cherries earnt promotion back to the English Premier League football. Thrust into the starting XI after the departure of Diego Rico, Zemura revealed he had always had confidence to take his chance when he was handed the opportunity. The Lambeth-born defender also stressed the importance the faith shown by the coaching staff had on his ability to make the step up. He told the Daily Echo: “I think I’ve always said to myself, when the opportunity arises, I’ll be ready. “I didn’t want to ever look back and I haven’t done really. I’ve just gone for it and I’ve loved every moment. “I can only thank the gaffer, Wellsy (assistant manager, Matt Wells), everyone for what they’ve done for me. “I’m just going to give them more next year. I’m going to give them twice as much as I gave this year, next season.” Meanwhile, boss Parker revealed Cherries will “change things a little bit tactically” as they gear up for a return to the English Premier League. Parker guided Cherries back to the top flight at the first time of asking with a second-placed finish in the Championship last term, finishing six points clear of third-placed Huddersfield Town and just two points off title winners Fulham. Cherries have spent the past nine days ramping up preparations for the new campaign with a training camp in Portugal, which featured games against Sheffield Wednesday and Braga. Goals from Lewis Cook and Dominic Solanke earned a 2-1 win over the Owls, before Braga won by the same score on Tuesday, despite Solanke netting again. Cherries now return to England, before hosting Bristol City and Real Sociedad in friendlies at Vitality Stadium, ahead of the English Premier League opener against Aston Villa on August 6. Reflecting on the workout against Europa League side Braga, Parker told afcbTV: “I was pleased with the general structure of the game. “I thought out of possession we were very good in that sense. (We have) worked really hard on that side over the last three weeks and probably saw bits (on Tuesday) which I liked. “Still loads of bits where we still need to improve and we need to get better for sure, because there are certain bits which are not that. But we still have a little bit of time to do that. “But overall, in and out of possession, some of the nice bits we were showing was evidence of the work we’ve done on the training ground and fair play to the boys for that.” Asked what the plans are between now and the Villa clash, Parker added: “Keep working, keep pushing. We need to keep working hard and understanding what this season is going to be and how we are. “We’re obviously going to change things a little bit tactically as well, so a lot of information is going into the players, in terms of understanding the way we’re going to need to play this year really. “It’s been an enjoyable nine days, but it has been a long nine days. “So we’ll give them (the players) a little bit of down-time, just get their legs back a little bit and then we’ve got another game now on Saturday, we’ll get back into that from there.” Looking ahead to the two upcoming friendlies, Parker added: “Pleased to get back in front of the fans and the players in terms of playing in front of our own fans really. “So we’re looking forward to it. Another tough opposition in Bristol as well, and then obviously after that we’re one game out before the season starts. — Daily Echo.