The Herald LONDON. — Chelsea have made an audacious move to try and hijack Barcelona’s move for Bayern Munich super-striker Robert Lewandowski. The 33-year-old marksman is determined to quit the German giants for a new challenge after shooting them to their 10th successive title. Lewandowski’s capture would represent a statement signing for new Chelsea owner Todd Boelhy and an impressive response to Manchester City ‘s capture of Erling Haaland and Liverpool ‘s signing of Darwin Nunez. Barcelona have been the Poland international’s first choice for some time but Bayern — who have fought in vain to keep their prize asset — want £42 million up front. With the Spanish giants’ financial situation posing a problem, Chelsea and PSG have made moves to tempt Lewandowski to the English Premier League and the French league respectively. The player is understood to be open to both moves while Thomas Tuchel, out here with his squad on the first leg of their US tour, would see him as a better fit for the side he is rebuilding than 37-year-old Cristiano Ronaldo. Lewandowski scored 50 goals in all competitions last season and, in their last four seasons, has scored 193 times. Chelsea are poised to confirm the signing of City and England winger Raheem Sterling within the next 24 hours with the former Liverpool star set to jet out to join their pre-season preparations. While Sterling’s desire to quit the Etihad Stadium has been more muted, Lewandowski has made no secret of his intent to leave Bavaria this summer, despite returning for pre-season training yesterday. While on international duty with Poland last month, the ex- Borussia Dortmund talisman told Polish outlet OnetSport : “I just want to leave Bayern. Loyalty and respect are more important than the work. The best thing to do is find a solution together. They didn’t want to listen to me until the end. Something died inside me — and it’s impossible to get over that. Even if you want to be professional, you can’t make up for it. “During so many years at the club I was always ready, available, despite injuries and the pain, I gave my best. I think the best thing to do is to find a good solution for both sides. “And not to look for a one-sided decision. I’m not looking for a unilateral solution, that makes no sense, not after so much time, after such a successful era and with my will and support.” Lewandowski added: — The Mirror