The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter NGEZI Platinum Stars coach Benjani Mwaruwaru has hinted he could break with his own philosophy after launching a head hunt for a seasoned player who could provide the much sought-after stability at the Mhondoro-based Castle Lager Premiership football club. Since assuming control at Ngezi Platinum in March, Mwaruwaru has been keeping emphasis on the need to develop young players, with the former Warriors skipper promoting three such lads from the team’s development side. The youngsters haven’t been disappointing too as they have become key figures in Mwaruwaru’s quest to finish in the top four. But Ngezi Platinum have been so erratic and last Saturday produced one of their worst performances in years in a 0-3 mauling at the hands of Herentals in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League fixture at the National Sports Stadium. Of course, the team, in their hot-cold spells under Mwaruwaru, have shown a lot of potential but somehow, they have struggled with consistency. And the former Manchester City forward believes it is leadership and stability that are lacking in his otherwise exciting charges. “It is difficult to find players these days but if we could find someone who is really good, we will certainly go for them as at the moment, we are trying to find stability. We are trying to find someone who can provide us with that and leadership as well,” said Mwaruwaru. Ngezi Platinum have already added another teenager to their roster after roping in striker Tapiwa Mandinyenya from Aces Youth Soccer Academy (AYSA). The 19-year-old, who has also seen action with South African First Division side JDR Stars, is joining on a year-long loan. He has already been registered with the PSL and could play a part when Ngezi Platinum host CAPS United this weekend as the loose ends to the deal would have been finalised. Mwaruwaru, who has already made it clear his team is seeking to finish the season in the top-four, is also hopeful two of his players, who have just been re-registered, would breathe life to his team. Last Jesi had been de-registered for truancy as soon as Mwaruwaru arrived while striker Junior Zindoga was a long-term injury victim. But the two players have since been re-adopted and both gave a good show when unleashed against Herentals. “There is certainly no doubt about the quality of Jesi (Last). He is a very good player who could give us what we have been lacking going forward. He is an impressive player and he has shown that at training. “Zindoga (Junior) is also one such player who can decide games for us. He is willing to work even harder and we believe their addition into the squad will give us a new lease of life,” Mwaruwaru said. While the pair have been re-registered, Ghanaian defender Derrick Bonna will know if he would be able to make his way back into the team in the next two weeks.