The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter ONE of Zimbabwe’s top professional golfers Ben Follet-Smith won the Chevron Golf Tour-sponsored Gokomere Open with an impressive seven-under-par at Chapman yesterday. The Sunshine Tour and Asian Tour player had good rounds of 69, 68 and 72 for a total 209 to win the US$1 000 first prize. Follet-Smith, who is heading to the Asian Tour on Sunday, believes practice is making him a better player with each passing tournament. “I am so happy to win this tournament back home. I last played in the Zimbabwe Open where I did fairly well and coming back home and winning a tournament gives me confidence. “The tournament was tough and the course was playing well despite the morning colds. I managed to take the lead from day one and the last day proved a challenging one as Mohammad Mandhu was closing on me. I am now going to play in the Asian Tour for the next three weeks then I will take a two-week break. “I am grateful to the Chevron Golf Tour for the tournament and I hope to return home for more tournaments,” said Follet-Smith. Mandhu was second on six-under with rounds of 73, 67 and 70 for a total 210 to pocket US$850. Robson Chinhoi, who has been doing well of late, was third on one-under-par 215 after carding 73, 70 and 72. For his efforts, Chinhoi pocketed US$750. Having played well in the Safari Tour, Visitor Mapwanya managed to make the top four as Tinashe Makunde was fifth. The duo pocketed US$600 and US$500 respectively. The top 10 was completed by Davison Elijah, Tafara Mpofu and Kayaam Mandhu who were tied on position seven as Arkil Yousuf and Promise Sumbrero completed the money slots. The amateur ranks were won by Rasheed Mohamed who carded a total 229 with rounds of 77, 76 and 76 beating Clifford Sibanda for the second place by three shots. Dylan Vijay Mangabhai was third with Shepherd Chiwaya on fourth. Mohamed  of Chapman was playing at his backyard and said he was happy with the win as it will help him as he looks towards turning professional. “I am happy with the win and playing with the professionals give us amateurs an opportunity to compete at the highest level. “I am grateful for the tournament as it gives us more game-time at the highest level which we rarely get. I am now looking forward to do well in the upcoming tournaments,” said Mohamed. Arnold Burasho, who represented Chevrons Golf Tour, said they are happy to have hosted the second edition of the newly-established Tour. “We are happy to have successfully hosted the second edition of the Chevron Tour event, the Gokomere Open, here at Chapman Golf Club. We had our first tournament in Zambia the Rozvi Tour at Lusaka Golf Club last month and we are in the right path. The idea is to offer a unique opportunity for local golfers to prepare for other international tournaments as we are giving them the much-needed game-time as well as keeping the players in shape. “The Zimbabwe Professional Golfers Association (ZPGA) helped us to create a pathway for local professional golfers to get some competitive game-time before making the step up to other top professional circuits. “The games went on well and everyone seems happy and we are grateful to Chapman Golf Club for the reception and the course played really well. The field was competitive considering the scores carded throughout the three rounds. We are now looking forward to the third tournament of the 11-match series which will run until next year June,” said Burasho.