The Herald Arts Reporter Male modelling has matched the status and acclaim female modelling has held since the 1980s, thanks to names like Jonathan Denga, Trust Mate, Tyson Beckford and David Beckham, among others, who have become celebrities. Now, it is also increasingly seen as desirable profession and is now being considered a legitimate career and there is also a wider understanding of what being a male model entails. Contrary to public perception, it takes much more than simply looking good. Yes, you typically need to be tall and have “good” bone structure. But the dynamics of how to become a male model are always changing, and it no longer ends at being able to out-pout even Hollywood models like David Beckham. Male model, 23-year-old Kelvin Kudzaishe Mandibatsira, affectionately known as “Apple Papi”, said besides the career being not an easy road, what breaks a male model was not treating the career professionally. “Those who make it are the ones who treat it like a business and take being professional seriously,” he said. “Being fun and young at heart is a big part of what attracts clients. Just do your job professionally and perform.” Mandibatsira has several risqué photo shoots that have stood out and currently is working for men’s clothing line JanJam as a salesman. “It is a life choice, and one that takes plenty of discipline: days in the gym, eating properly, avoiding alcohol at all costs. It isn’t just turning up and taking a nice photo,” he said. “It’s less about looks now and more about how that individual is in themselves, and how that shows in their face.” Mandibatsira said social media has helped build his personality, together with the growing number of smaller menswear brands that are more interested in a creative look – in having the right face for them rather than strict model measurements. He said the fact that there were so many male models now who could, more or less, do the same job and that clients were increasingly looking for the X-Factor, one has to be creative in order to stand tall. “Social media is a huge shop window for models now, and they have been personally scouted through it,” said Mandibatsira. “A lot of people are spotted this way now, so if you’re on the younger side, consider this as a way to boost your promise.” Mandibatsira specialises in several sectors of the modelling sector and he owes his strength to being photogenic. “Being bold and confident has become the two factors that assured me that I have a positive career in the modelling industry. “From the first day I stood in front of the camera, I never looked back. As any student in any industry, one needs a teacher or a mentor to achieve their dreams and to select the path they should walk in. “I was scouted by one of Zimbabwe’s award winning modelling agencies, Top Model Zimbabwe, under the wings of Karin Evans. I am a freelance model now.” Some of the companies he has worked for include Jet, Edgars, Chicken Inn and Jan Jam. He has also featured in a number of musical videos as a “fox” (male version of vixen), including Rachel J’s latest offering, “Ma1”. “Last year, I made history as I became one of the first models to catwalk at the inaugural of the Style Icon Fashion Awards, modelling for fashion house Zarguesia,” he said. The father of one said his aim was to be a role model and inspiration to everyone who believed that they can make it in life despite any limitations they faced. Apart from being a model, he owns his own fashion brand known as ‘Watch Me’. “I am a young entrepreneur and a proud father. Working with JanJam these past months was really a dream come true in this business. The shoots are always a lot of fun. The boss lady Cynthia is easygoing, and she loves what she does,” he said. “Being around that kind of energy makes my job a lot easier and fun. To me, as a male in this business, working with her brand is probably the best for me, it is an honour.” Mandibatsira confirmed they have just finished working on a new project involving summer wear that should be out next month. Asked how he prepares himself before any campaign photo shoot,  he said; “I prepare for a campaign shoot the same way I prepare for anything I am working on. I don’t want to show up to any kind of job unprepared. If my image is tied to a project, I take it seriously. “I try to keep myself mentally and physically healthy at all times. You never really know when you might get a last-minute call to do a big project. I have learned that it’s good to be prepared as much as possible through my many years in this business.” Surprisingly, Mandibatsira said he doesn’t compare himself with other male models because he is already different.