The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter TABLES have tuned in the domestic Castle Lager Premiership football. FC Platinum, who have had a steady rise in recent years, hold the aces and are currently dictating the pace after climbing to the top of the table following an impressive run. The three-time Castle Lager Premiership champions have another brilliant opportunity to demonstrate how the balance of power has shifted when they invade the National Sports Stadium tomorrow for a sparring with giants Dynamos. The Glamour Boys hold the records as the country’s biggest and most successful club but they – and the other traditional giants Highlanders and CAPS United – have played in the shadows of the platinum miners in recent years. FC Platinum, who, are now in their 10th season after getting promotion in 2011, look like they will dominate the domestic football landscape for some years to come after winning the last three championships on the bounce. They could have won it in their debut season, with a little bit of luck, but they lost it to the Glamour Boys on goal difference. DeMbare confounded the newcomers after they staged a smash-and-grab win in the penultimate round at Mandava, and the platinum miners had to wait for six more years. But after striking thee right chords in 2017, they now find themselves gunning for a straight fourth title. This record-equaling dream looks attainable, after they opened a five-point gap at the top of the Castle Lager Premiership table on resumption of the second round matches. However, FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza has refused to be drawn into talking about the title fortunes, instead choosing to dwell more on the rebuilding exercise that they have embarked on this season, with the future in mind. “We are not playing our games with any pressure at all. We are on top of the log. We just have to take each game as it comes, like I said after the Bulawayo Chiefs game (last week), and then we see how the season progresses. What is important is to have the same mentality of working hard and have the same desire to win matches,” said Mapeza. The former Zimbabwe international has also not lost respect of the ailing giants Dynamos ahead of tomorrow’s encounter. “We know Dynamos, we know their history and it’s a massive game for us. What is important for us is to go there with the same mentality and same desire that we have shown week in and week out, then we see what happens at the end of the day. “It’s not going to be an easy game for us. Everybody knows what is happening but we don’t want to look much into that. This is Dynamos, anything can happen on any given day. What is important is to go there with a positive mind,” said Mapeza. The two teams have experienced contrasting fortunes. While FC Platinum are enjoying the form of their life, DeMbare have been going through a rough patch. They have won only once in the last seven outings and have collected only one point, from a possible nine, since the resumption of the second round games. “That is none of our business,” said Mapeza. “We are concentrating much on what we are doing as a club. They are not the only team which has not won in the first three matches of the second half of the season. “If we are going to read much into that then we will be in trouble. We are not focusing much on whatever that is happening with any other club that we are going to face. Otherwise, we will destruct ourselves from our objective to win matches,” said Mapeza. They plundered 16 goals and conceded none in their seven-match winning streak. DeMbare coach Tonderai Ndiraya has been following FC Platinum’s progress. “Obviously they have been doing well and the huge challenge that we have is to stop their winning streak. That’s what we have been working on the whole week. “Hopefully, we can come good and stop them on Sunday. I know it’s not going to be easy, it’s a huge challenge but that’s when we must show ourselves as a big brand, playing against another big team. “We are all focusing on getting a good result and like I said pressure is always there at Dynamos whether you are winning or not. But it is how we manage that pressure that is important. “The way we are going to manage that pressure will surely determine how we are going to play our next game and how we are going to be managing the games ahead,” Ndiraya said. Fixtures Today: ZPC Kariba v Cranborne Bullets (Nyamhunga, 1pm), Bulawayo City v Tenax (Barbourfields), Ngezi Platinum Stars v CAPS Utd (Baobab), Harare City v Triangle (NSS), Whawha v Highlanders (Ascot), Manica Diamonds v Herentals (Vengere) Tomorrow: Bulawayo Chiefs v Chicken Inn (Luveve), Dynamos v FC Platinum (NSS), Black Rhinos v Yadah (Vengere)