The Herald Nyore Madzianike–Senior Court Reporter The leader of the Zimbabwe Transformative Party and Mirirai Jehovha Apostolic Church, Parere Kunyenzura, and 35 of his followers who allegedly staged an unsanctioned demonstration in Harare’s city centre, appeared separately in court in court yesterday. Kunyenzura (52) is charged with convening a gathering without notifying the regulating authority. He complained that the police had left out another charge of criminal nuisance and asked the State to add it before proceeding with the charge he was facing. Kunyenzura also asked the court to remand him in custody for the next two weeks, as he wants to seek legal representation since his case has been politicised. The State led by Mrs Netsai Mushayabasa applied for him to return to court today to allow the State to add the missing public nuisance charge. On Saturday at around 1pm Kunyenzura allegedly mobilised his supporters and followers and held a procession in central Harare. They gathered at Copacabana Bus Terminus and started marching while singing along Robert Mugabe Road towards Simon Vengai Muzenda Street. Police intercepted them at corner of Patrice Lumumba Street and asked Kunyenzura to produce the notification letter but he did not have one. His followers, clad in apostolic garments, were singing a gospel song “Emmanuel tisunungureiwo tanzwa nenhamo”, according to the State. The police officers ordered them to stop singing and disperse. Kunyenzura and two others, who were leading the group, refused to comply resulting in their arrest on charges of failure to notify the regulating authority. About 30 minutes later, Kunyenzura’s followers regrouped and started singing while walking along Robson Manyika Avenue. Police reacted and arrested 34 members of the group for blocking pavements and the road along Robson Manyika Avenue. In the gathering were Kunyenzura’s deputy Simon Goshomi, party chairman Richard Mhurushomana, secretary general Fortune Chapeyama, secretary of finance Prince Mukozho, plus Solomon Duwa, Noah Dabvu, Jasper Muringanidza, Honoured Mutangadura, Shepherd Mutsonhi, Edson Shonhiwa, Chaora Rovesai, Tafadzwa Musere, Tsverukai Harava, Shamiso Majecha, Runia Musere, Margret Chibwana, Sakile Nkomo, Helen Kuudzewe, Liah Munakandafa, Victoria Changadzo, Restar Kunyenzura, Emmanuel Musere, Godfrey Mashava and Kudakwashe Kambiro. They are expected to return to court today for their bail applications. They all appeared before magistrate Mr Stanford Mambanje.