The Herald FOLLOWING their mixed tour of the West Indies, Bangladesh travel to Zimbabwe for three T20Is and three ODIs, with the hosts set to face a number of world-class cricket opponents in a packed itinerary. The tourists come from the Caribbean hot off a strong ODI series win, though were troubled in the shortest format, falling to a 2-0 series defeat. Zimbabwe, meanwhile, are buoyant following the qualification for the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup 2022, winning the all-important Qualifier B semi-final over PNG to punch their tournament tickets, and capping off the campaign with a win over the Netherlands in the tournament final at Queens Sports Club in Bulawayo on Sunday. Sikandar Raza claimed Player of the Tournament honours at the qualifier, though it would be remiss not to acknowledge the strong overall performance of the playing group, led by skipper Craig Ervine. Sean Williams made an impressive return for the Chevrons with the bat, while a number of players contributed in a strong bowling effort, spearheaded by quick Blessing Muzarabani. Preparing for the T20 World Cup and striving for 2023 Cricket World Cup qualification, Zimbabwe will certainly be battle-hardened, also taking on India and Australia in the next two months after Bangladesh’s visit. And now with their place at the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup 2022 sealed, Zimbabwe will now turn their immediate attention to back-to-back home series against Bangladesh and India scheduled for July-August. At the completion of those two incoming tours, Zimbabwe will leave for Australia where they will face their hosts in three one-day international (ODI) matches. First, Bangladesh will visit Zimbabwe for three Twenty20 international (T20I) games set for July 30 and 31 and August 2 at Harare Sports Club — play will be starting at 1pm local time. The two sides will then lock horns in as many ODIs set for August 5, 7 and 10 at the same venue, with the matches getting underway at 9:15am local time. A few days later, Zimbabwe will host India for three ODIs to be played on August 18, 20 and 22, also at Harare Sports Club and starting at 9:15am local time. The series against India is part of the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup Super League, a 13-team competition serving as the main route for direct qualification for the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup 2023 to be staged in India. Zimbabwe’s spot at the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup 2022, to be held in Australia starting in October, was confirmed at the weekend when they won the eight-team qualifying tournament that took place in Bulawayo. But prior to going down under for the global T20 jamboree, Zimbabwe will first tour Australia for another Super League series consisting of three ODIs scheduled for August 28 and 31 and September 3 in Townsville — the matches will be starting at 1:40am Zimbabwe time (9:40am Australia time). Meanwhile, India return to Zimbabwe after a six-year gap since their last visit, with their three ODIs part of the ongoing Cricket World Cup Super League. Their matches with Australia in August and September are part of the same competition, where they lie in 12th position (35 points) with three wins and a no-result. For now though, Zimbabwe’s focus is firmly on Bangladesh, not only in terms of preparation, but to maintain strong rankings for both formats. Zimbabwe sit in 12th on the MRF ICC T20I Rankings, on the edges of potential automatic qualification 2024 T20 World Cup, and in 15th in the ODI format, behind fellow Super League contenders Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe v Bangladesh schedule First T20I: July 30 Second T20I: August 1 Third T20I: August 2 First ODI: August 5 Second ODI: August 7 Third ODI: August 10 All matches at the Harare Sports Club. Zimbabwe v India schedule First ODI: August 18 Second ODI: August 20 Third ODI: August 22 All matches at the Harare Sports Club. Australia v Zimbabwe schedule First ODI: August 28 Second ODI: August 31 Third ODI: September 3 All matches at Riverway Stadium, Townsville. — ICC Cricket.com/zimcricket.org