The Herald LONDON. — Italian Serie A football giants Juventus have reached an agreement to sign Paul Pogba on a free transfer on a four-year contract. Pogba is expected in Turin on Saturday for a medical and to formally sign the contract. The France international has been free to negotiate with clubs over his next move since January. Pogba left Manchester United at the end of his contract last month. The move to Juventus would mark a return to a club where Pogba spent four years with before rejoining United in 2016. As he closes on his 30s, Pogba is aware this could be the last big move of his career and wants to take his time to ensure he makes the right decision. Manchester City also made a stunning bid to sign Pogba from bitter rivals United, with Pep Guardiola meeting the midfielder and the club drafting a lucrative contract to demonstrate their desire to sign him. But while the World Cup winner did consider City’s offer, he felt the accompanying noise and hate would not be worth it. Pogba complained United offered him “nothing” despite the midfielder reportedly being offered two contracts worth more than £290 000 a week. Sky Sports News understands he was offered a 3.5 per cent increase on his contract. In ‘’The Pogmentary’’, Pogba speaks to his late agent Mino Raiola about United’s second proposal last July. “Did Manchester (United) make a second offer?” Pogba asks Raiola. “Yes,” Raiola replies. “They absolutely want you to stay. For me, the offer doesn’t reflect that. I told them, ‘If you want him to stay, don’t make that offer’. I will make them understand that if they really want you to stay and they want to build a project around you, this time they have to act differently and put the money on the table.” “They’re bluffing,” Pogba says. “How can you tell a player you absolutely want him and offer him nothing? Never seen that.” Pogba, who left United to join Juventus — also for free — in 2012, was meant to be the homecoming saviour when the English Premier League side paid a then-world record fee for his services. But his six seasons in the north-west have been marred by injuries and inconsistency, leading fans and pundits to question his effort and determination. — Sky Sports 