The Herald LONDON. — Arsenal have included both Thomas Partey and Bernd Leno in the squad that is on a pre-season tour of the United States. The Ghana international missed the run-in last season with a thigh injury but took part in a behind closed doors friendly against Ipswich earlier this month. Partey missed last Friday’s friendly against Nurnberg in Germany and reports earlier on Wednesday claimed he had been omitted from the squad. Arsenal, however, have now confirmed the 29-year-old is in the touring squad, along with goalkeeper Bernd Leno and Granit Xhaka. Leno was expected to be left back in London with talks over a potential move to Fulham having stalled. Arsenal want a fee of around £11million for the 30-year-old who lost his place as the club’s undisputed No.1 to Aaron Ramsdale last term. Leno is keen on a move to west London and is hopeful an agreement can be reached swiftly so he can guarantee regular first team football and force his way back into Germany’s squad ahead of the World Cup. Young striker Folarin Balogun, meanwhile, is expected to secure another loan move after he impressed during a six-month stint at Middlesbrough in the Championship. Xhaka travelled to the USA despite having declined a Covid vaccination last year, according to the Switzerland Football Association. The English Premier League does not reveal whether or not players have been vaccinated, but last week Chelsea were forced to omit N’Golo Kante and Ruben Loftus-Cheek from the 29-man squad which flew to Los Angeles. America has banned people entering the country unless they are vaccinated against Covid-19, legislation that is likely to rule Wimbledon champion Novak Djokovic out of September’s US Open. Arsenal’s touring party will, however, include a number of players who have been made available for transfer this summer. The Gunners have invested heavily already in the likes of Gabriel Jesus and Fabio Vieira so far this summer and want to raise additional funds by selling squad members deemed surplus to requirements. Hector Bellerin, Pablo Mari, Ainsley Maitland-Niles and Reiss Nelson were all loaned out last term and are seeking permanent exits. Record signing Nicolas Pepe has also been made available but suitors are few and far between, while Arsenal will struggle to recoup even a third of the £72million they invested in the Ivory Coast international three years ago. Arsenal were interested in replacing the former Lille winger with Barcelona-bound Raphinha, and have now turned their attention to another Brazil international, Lyon’s Lucas Paqueta. Arsenal squad for the 2022 USA tour Goalkeepers: Aaron Ramsdale, Bernd Leno, Matt Turner, Arthur Okonkwo, Alex Runarsson Defenders: Kieran Tierney, Nuno Tavares, Gabriel, Pablo Mari, Ben White, Rob Holding, William Saliba, Hector Bellerin, Cedric Soares, Takehiro Tomiyasu, Reuell Walters Midfielders: Mohamed Elneny, Lucas Torreira, Thomas Partey, Emile Smith Rowe, Albert Sambi Lokonga, Granit Xhaka, Martin Odegaard, Ainsley Maitland-Niles, Fabio Vieira, Reiss Nelson Forwards: Gabriel Martinelli, Eddie Nketiah, Gabriel Jesus, Nicolas Pepe, Bukayo Saka, Folarin Balogun, Marquinhos — Metro.