The Herald Trust Freddy Youth Interactive Writer It was all smiles on Thursday as the Government donated state of the art computers to five schools in Harare province as part of the ongoing computerisation programme. The schools namely Mufakose High 4, ZRP Support Unit College, Mabvuku High School, Chikurubi Primary School and Queen Elizabeth High School received the donation which was applauded by the pupils. In an interview with Youth Interactive, the pupils said the latest development will go a long way in not only boosting their education system but putting the local pupils, especially on e-learning at par excellence. Below are some excerpts from students;  ZRP Support Unit College student, Prince Damba, said was ecstatic that he could now pursue his dream of becoming a programmer. “I want to be a computer programmer. To me, these are my first stepping stones to become a programmer. I am really grateful. Thank you so much,” he said. Desire Zhou a form 5 pupil at Mabvuku high school said the donated computers will go a long way in enhancing digital literacy. “As Form 5 pupils we are currently working on a project, we want to create our own website just like other higher institutions”, Zhou said. Takunda Manjeya, an aspiring music producer, said this donation marked his journey in the music industry. “Personally this gesture will assist me to learn more about producing music since it is my passion,” Manjweya said. Chikurubi Primary School also received its fair share. Pupils were excited at the prospect of printing their CALAs using their own resources. “We used to share the few computers we had but now that another 30 have been added it is now easy for us to type our documents and do our CALA research”, Alicia Chemvumi said. In Mufakose where another laboratory was commissioned, both parents and children expressed gratitude to the government for transforming the learning environment towards academic excellence. The other laboratory was commissioned at Mabvuku High School and students had an opportunity to interact with the Minister of Primary and Secondary Education Dr Evelyn Ndlovu who was in attendance. At Queen Elizabeth High school students breathed a sigh of relief saying ICT equipment will make their academic research easier. “We can now develop software skills, learn about websites, programming and projects that the textbooks cannot offer”,  The commissioning of ICT laboratories is part of the government’s efforts to promote digital economy and human capital development. The Information Communication Technology, Postal and Courier Services Minister Dr Jenfan Muswere, who commissioned laboratories, said the computer labs are meant to ensure that no one is left behind.