The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter LOG leaders Platinum Queens are looking at maintaining their fine run when the Premier Netball League continues today with round six matches scheduled for the University of Zimbabwe. The PNL matches are being played in a bubble with teams converging at one venue. Today and tomorrow the clubs continue with their campaigns at the University of Zimbabwe in the last bubble of the first half of the season. Platinum Queens are leading the championship race with 26 points from 13 games. They are yet to drop a point. ZDF are on second place with the same number of points from 15 games. They have lost two. Ngezi Platinum completes the top three with 24 points from 14 matches. They have also lost two games. The likes of sixth placed Harare City are hoping to pick more points this weekend and move up the log table. Harare City coach, Ropafadzo Mutsauki, said they need to up their game to meet their target for the season. “Looking at our position, sixth position, I think it’s not bad. I think the players we have are performing well. “We just need to up our game to climb up the ladder to occupy a better position. I am hopeful the second round is going be exciting and competitive because every team will be playing for position and we want to improve to get into the top four. “So far I have no major injuries and we are hoping that this is going to be an interesting bubble because almost every team will be there. So we are going to have an exciting competition. I think this season there is some good competition. “On our side we have a lot of things to do especially on our shooting. During the window period we need to look for one or two shooters to beef up our team,” said Mutsauki. The Harare City coach said they are likely to face tough competition from their opponents, also seeking to gain more points. They are up against Filchrist Boarding and Lupane in their opening games. Mutsauki, who is also the national coach, said the senior national team technical team will take time to assess some players during the games. “We are hoping that all teams will come and we are looking forward to assessing national team players in action for their clubs and we can see how they perform. “Those that won’t be available, we will see them on Monday when we start camp for our preparations with the senior national team,” said Mutsauki.