The Herald Another overseas-based Zimbabwean actress is set to make the nation proud in film circles on the world stage. UK-based multi-media artiste Vanesu Danai Samunyai will feature in upcoming American fantasy drama television series ‘The Sandman’. Based on the 1989–1996 comic book written by Neil Gaiman and published by DC Comics, the series was developed for the streaming service Netflix, and produced by DC Entertainment and Warner Bros. It will premier on August 5, 2022. Samunyai, also known affectionately as Kyo Ra in South Korean media circles where she honed a lot of her creative skills, was born in England to Zimbabwean parents 21 years ago. She can sing, act, dance, choreograph, create visual art and do a whole lot more with her stunningly creative mind. Our correspondent Kumbirayi Shoniwa (KS) recently caught up with Vanesu Samunyai (VS) and filed the following interview. KS: What was the biggest challenge in bringing the character of Rose Walker to life? VS: Thankfully nothing was challenging. I had to create a lot of her story myself, like filling in the blanks between what was written in the comics and what to portray in the movie. Rose and I share some similarities and I found it easy to slip into character. KS: How is it like to work with a veteran actor like Tom Sturridge when you’re a newbie like yourself? VS: I worked with a lot of veteran actors on ‘The Sandman’ including Tom. I also worked with great directors. I’m very thankful. In a way, I was anchored by their experience and familiarity with the industry. I was also able to get some help in areas where I didn’t know as much. For example how to do certain things for the camera etc. I just soaked up all that I could. KS: Who do you look up to for inspiration? VS: I try not to think too much about other people when it comes to inspiration. I’d like to pave my own path and develop independently. So anyone I do look to, I look at loosely. One person that I’ve looked at is Leonardo Da Vinci. He was a polymath like me and looking at masters from the Renaissance era expands my mind to the possibilities of what I can do.  In terms of acting, some of the contemporaries I admire are Zendaya, Anya Taylor Joy and Timothee Chalamet. KS: What do you think of the Zim artistic landscape (film, music, visual)? VS: I believe we have many talented people in Zimbabwe. I look forward to seeing our artistes rise and I hope that my generation can bring a new prosperity and recognition to our country – similar to the South Korean Hallyu wave. I’ would love for foreign people to gain an interest in Zimbabwe – our cultures and our languages. I’d love to hear of people learning Shona or Ndebele. KS: What things about Zimbabwe do you tell your friends back in UK? VS: I have spoken to people from many places about Zimbabwe. When I do speak of Zimbabwe I like to talk about aspects our culture. Our practices. I love how welcoming our society is to guests. And the emphasis of hunhu. I also make mention of our traditional spirituality. When I was in Korea I told people about the similarities between their culture and ours. We even have a similar drink – we have chibuku and they have makgeolli. I also love our mangoes and palm trees. KS: What can you say to young Zimbabwean girls and women like yourself who dream of succeeding in their careers? VS: I’d tell them to dream big. Dare to think differently. Dare to want more. Don’t put a cap on what you think you can do. Or what you can go for. You’re allowed to occupy any space you choose. Have faith in your ideas even when no one else does. Trust in yourself, in your judgment. In the ideas that were given to you for a reason. When you apply yourself you really can do anything. Also, remember to be kind to yourself when things aren’t working out. There’s a time for resting, just as there is for sowing. KS: Vanesu, thank you very much for this chat. VS: You’re welcome Kumbi, thank you.