The Herald Victor Maphosa-Mashonaland East Bureau Police have arrested Edward Mhishe (46) of Rambanepasi Village in Hwedza for allegedly killing his wife’s lover in cold blood and leaving his wife for dead after he attacked them on Sunday night. Mhishe was customarily married to Linda Garaba (32), but in April this year they separated and Garaba had to move out of their home to stay with her mother in Hwedza. Allegations are that on Sunday around 6pm Garaba went to Bozho Village in Sadza to see her now boyfriend Partson Warikandwa (45). On the same day, it is alleged that Mhishe heard that Garaba was in Bozho Village at her new boyfriend’s house and he went to the village and asked the boyfriend’s uncle, Samuel Mahupeta, to help him persuade his wife to come back home. Mahupeta turned him down arguing that Ms Garaba was now dating his relative. It is alleged that Mhishe then went to his mother-in-law where he begged her to talk to her daughter about solving their issue, however she refused and referred him to their aunt. Allegations are that on the same day around 7pm he went back to Mr Mahupeta’s home where he pleaded with her wife to go with him, but she refused. She promised to follow later. But around 9pm on the same date, Garaba and her boyfriend Warikandwa left their uncle’s place and went to sleep. An hour later, Mhishe went to Mr Warikandwa’s homestead where he forced his entry into his house, while armed with a wooden hoe handle and attacked Mr Warikandwa and Ms Garaba. Mr Warikandwa died on spot. Ms Garaba, who was left unconscious had to be rushed to Sadza district hospital where her condition is said to be critical. Police spokesperson for Mashonaland East Province Inspector Simon Chazovachiyi confirmed the assaults. “He assaulted Warikandwa on the head and mouth and he died on the spot. He went on to assault his wife Garaba also on the head and her back and she got unconscious. He then left and went to his mother-in-law’s homestead where he said to her “ndapedza maspots nemwana wenyu nechikomba chake”. “After saying that, he then ran away heading for his village. His mother-in-law rushed to the now deceased’s homestead where she found the two lying in a pool of blood. She screamed for help and at the same time, her daughter gained consciousness, in a confused state.” Sadza police were called and took the dead man to the mortuary and the injured woman to hospital. Insp Chazovachiyi said Mhishe was arrested at a roadblock after the police were tipped of his whereabouts by members of the public. He commended the public for providing information which led to the arrest of Mhishe. Inspector Chazovachiyi urged the public to always solve their differences peacefully.