The Herald Joseph Madzimure and Trust Freddy
ZANU PF has warned fired former party members, Godfrey Tsenengamu and Jimu Kunaka, against abusing the revolutionary party’s regalia and trademarks as appropriate action would be taken against them. Further, the duo was warned against threatening to unconstitutionally remove President Mnangagwa from power. The two recently held media conferences where they denigrated Zanu PF and threatened to unseat the President. Curiously, both Kunaka and Tsenengamu were expelled from the party for exhibiting high levels of indiscipline. Zanu PF Director for Information and Publicity, Cde Tafadzwa Mugwadi, yesterday said: “We have taken note of the threats issued by renegade and headless activists targeted at the President of the Republic. “The unsolicited false remarks by Godfrey Tsenengamu and the Chipangano violent hooligan Jimu Kunaka, suggesting strife between the President of the Second Republic, Cde Mnangagwa, and Vice President (Constantino) Chiwenga have no place in this Republic. To even seek to invite our esteemed defence forces into these baseless claims, is most unfortunate.” Cde Mugwadi urged the public to ignore the two and those behind them, since they were no longer ruling party members. Cde Mugwadi said Kunaka was expelled from Zanu PF in 2014 and later on joined NPF, before leaving it to join the MDC-Alliance, and later the CCC and was now not a member of any known political party. The same goes for Tsenengamu, added Cde Mugwadi. He said while it was expected that individuals could opt to be excited, “playing with fire” was beyond one’s limit. “It is one thing to criticise Cde Mnangagwa as a Zanu PF President and First Secretary and a different thing all together to seek for the unconstitutional removal of him as President and Commander-in-Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces,” said Cde Mugwadi. “To attempt the later, expressly or impliedly, will be tantamount to asking for tragic consequences. This tomfoolery must, therefore, just stop forthwith. “Abusing party registered memorabilia and trademarks by expelled elements organising clandestine Press conferences to undermine our party and leadership is indeed going too far, it must just stop.” Meanwhile, a lobby group, the Zimbabwe Youth Action Platform (ZYAP), has warned Mr Godfrey Tsenengamu over issuing threats to the Zanu PF leadership. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters in Harare last week, ZYAP president Cde Tonderai Chidawa described Mr Tsenengamu as an attention-seeker. “In his hollow rumblings to the media, typical of an attention seeking urchin, Tsenengamu purportedly invites a fallen member of the (G40) cabal in the form of Saviour Kasukuwere, whom he confuses with Christ the saviour,” he said. “We wish to make it clear to the media that Zanu PF, as the colossal revolutionary party, cleansed itself from unprincipled renegades and factional thugs who find political relevance through creating and fronting division.” Cde Chidawa said Mr Tsenengamu, a former Zanu PF youth league leader, was being used by the revolutionary party’s former national political commissar, Mr Kasukuwere. The ZYAP, he said, will not allow a “failed” politician like Mr Tsenengamu to plot the destruction of the country through nefarious overtures to topple the elected leadership. “To the embattled Kasukuwere, your actions are evidence that a leopard does not change its spots nor can the devil accept the Lord Jesus as his Saviour,” said Cde Chidawa. “Help Tsenengamu if you will, but not through exploiting his incessant need for money.” ZYAP said it will always defend President Mnangagwa and the entire party leadership, adding that they strongly supported the President’s candidature for the 2023 harmonised elections.