The Herald Crime Reporter THE Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) has intensified its crackdown against drug peddlers and syndicates countrywide through the setting up of crack teams that are set to lead the latest operation. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi said the crackdown was continuing until there was sanity in the country. “The ZRP applauds the public for supplying useful information to the police in the fight against drug and substance abuse. “On July 8, 2022, police in Harare arrested Callisto Bisenti, aged 43, for dealing in dangerous drugs in Mufakose. “Four sachets of crystal methamphetamine weighing 18 grammes and 300 grammes of dagga (mbanje) were recovered from the suspect. Similarly, on July 10, 2022, police in Beitbridge arrested Komborerai Isheunesu aged 26 for illegal possession of 2 grammes of crystal methamphetamine,” he said. Asst Comm Nyathi said police in Harare also arrested Tsitsi Makwarimba (35) for illegal possession of 14 sachets of crystal methamphetamine weighing 4 grammes in Glen Norah A. “On July 6, 2022, police in Beitbridge arrested Renias Muzeke for being found in possession of 2,106kg of dagga and 9x100ml of Benylin cough syrup at Zvingadai Car park, Dulibadzimu,” he said. Gift Hlabangani (49) was also arrested in Mashonaland West for illegal possession of 14.95 kilogrammes of mbanje which was packed in eight plastic bags and stashed in a bag. Last month, 28 people were arrested in Harare on allegations of dealing in or consuming illicit drugs. The crackdown on drug peddlers and syndicates started last year, with several peddlers arrested and their bases destroyed in raids focusing on Harare and Chitungwiza. Those raids concentrated on Mbare, Chitungwiza, Mabvuku, Epworth, Dzivarasekwa, Glen Norah, Mufakose, Southview and Highfields. Most were arrested while smoking mbanje, while others were caught selling sex-enhancing tablets and other illicit drugs such as BronCleer. The 28 were arrested in Mbare, Kuwadzana and Dzivarasekwa and this led to the recovery of 18×100 ml Stilpane syrup and 20 sachets of mbanje. Last year, at least 29 people were arrested on allegations of dealing in illicit drugs such as crystal methamphetamine, commonly known as “mutoriro”, “dombo” or “guka”, marijuana and BronCleer also known as “bronco” under an ongoing operation targeting dangerous drugs. Some of the suspects were fined on admission of guilt, but others had to appear in court. The suspects were arrested under operation ‘No To Crystal Meth’. In May last year, the Zimbabwe Republic Police arrested 93 drug peddlers and recovered drugs worth over $8,2 million, under the ongoing operation as they declared war on drug lords. According to police, the suspects were arrested between May 10 and 17, 2021 countrywide. Of the 93 arrested, 26 were taken into custody while the other 67 were fined on admission of guilt. A Harare resident, Mr Paradzai Mukotekwa applauded the police for launching the crackdown against drug peddlers saying taking drugs is destroying the lives of a lot of young people in the country. “It is my hope that this operation will continue until they flash out all those involved in drug peddling who are making a living by destroying the lives of young people,” he said. Another resident, Ms Sihle Simanga said the police should not only target only those who consume or sell small quantities of drugs but those behind the smuggling and distribution of narcotics. “I think the problem will only be solved if they swoop on those manufacturing, smuggling and distributing large quantities of these drugs. However, I would like to commend the police for doing a good job,” she said.