The Herald ORLANDO. — Mikel Arteta hailed the exceptional talents of new signing Oleksandr Zinchenko who was set to complete the formalities of his transfer from Manchester City yesterday. The Ukraine international will join the Gunners in a £32million deal and watched his new club from the stands, alongside technical director Edu, as Arteta’s side continued their flawless pre-season form with a 3-1 win over Orlando City in the early hours of yesterday morning. “Yeah, as you’ve seen he is here,’’ said Arteta, who usually shies away from commenting on transfer speculation, no matter how close a deal is to being concluded. “There are still a few formalities to get everything completed but we’re really happy to have him. “I know the player really well, he’s an exceptional footballer and he is someone that is going to bring as well another competitive edge to that dressing room.’’ As well as a winning mentality, Zinchenko will add further versatility to a squad that will benefit from his ability to play as a left-back, as he did for the majority of his City career, where Arsenal require cover for Kieran Tierney, and in central midfield. Asked in which position Zinchenko is likely to feature in his side, Arteta said: “Both, he can play in both. “He was a natural No.10 early in his career and we converted him into a left back which can do a lot of things that we want in our way of playing. “That versatility is something that is going to be important for the team because we have players in that position who are more specific full back so I’m really happy.’’ Versatility also represents key attributes in fellow headline summer recruits Fabio Vieira and Gabriel Jesus and Arteta believes the ability to play in numerous positions is fundamental to the way he wants his team to play, particularly with the advent of the five substitute rule next season. He said: “It’s one of the things and the way we can adapt structures, formations and rotations within the squad and playing with the same players in a different way. “To be more unpredictable is obviously important and that is why we have recruited those players. “It will be much more unpredictable to try to figure out what the opponent is going to do and there are going to be changes so what you have planned at the beginning doesn’t mean it’s going to happen at the end.’’ Meanwhile, Arteta is “delighted’’ to have William Saliba back with the club and insists the club has a plan in terms of the defender’s contract situation. The 21-year-old looks set to finally be given the chance in the Gunners first team this season after three loan spells away from the club at Saint-Etienne, Nice and Marseille. The France international came off the bench in a friendly against Orlando City yesterday after starting a pre-season match against Everton last week as he continues his progress towards an Arsenal debut. Having signed from Saint-Etienne in 2019, Saliba’s Arsenal contract only has a couple of years left, expiring in 2024 and Arteta says that the club has a plan in mind for his future. That plan sounds like extending his deal, with the Spaniard impressed with how the youngster has matured over the last three years. “We always have a plan and when we have to execute it, that’s a different story and football is a really funny game,’’ said Arteta. “We are really happy to have him and you can see the way he’s adapted, the way he’s matured and he’s playing well and we are delighted to have him.’’ — Sky Sports.