The Herald NEW YORK.  — Mike Tyson thinks his days are numbered and he will die “really soon’’. The 56-year-old former world heavyweight boxing champ made the scary comments on his Hotboxin’ podcast. Boxing legend Tyson believes his death is coming “really soon’’ and has revealed his money struggles with his wife — despite being a multi-millionaire. Speaking on his podcast, “Hotboxin’’ with Mike Tyson, the former world heavyweight champion told trauma and addiction therapist Sean McFarland he feels his time is almost up. “We are all gonna die one day, of course,’’ Tyson said. “Then, when I look in the mirror, I see those little spots on my face, I say, ‘Wow. That means my expiration date is coming close, really soon’.’’ In what was a morbid conversation, Tyson went on to state “money doesn’t mean s*** to me’’ and that it offers a false sense of security. “I always tell people — they think money’s gonna make them happy, they’ve never had money before — when you have a lot of money, you can’t expect nobody to love you,’’ he added. “You believe that you’re invincible when you have a lot of money, which isn’t true.’’ Tyson also said he has conversations with his third wife Lakiha Spicer, after she stated money will provide her with long term security when he dies. “What (exactly) is security?’’ he asked. “I don’t know. When you put money in your bank and you get a cheque every week and you can live for the rest of your life, is that security? “That means you won’t catch a disease, you can’t get hit by a car? You can’t jump off a bridge. I don’t know. Is that security? “Can money secure you from that?” Tyson had his first professional bout in 1985, beating Hector Mercedes aged just 18. “Iron Mike’’ quickly gained a reputation for his ferocious and intimidating style and was the first heavyweight boxer to simultaneously hold the WBA, WBC and IBF titles, — as well as being the only heavyweight fighter to unify them in succession. He served three years in jail for the rape of teenager Desiree Washington in July of 1991 and declared himself bankrupt in 2003 — despite earning over US$30million for several of his fights and US$300million across his career. Tyson is also infamous for biting the ear of Evander Holyfield in their June 1997 bout. The chomp was severe enough to sever a piece of Holyfield’s right ear, which was found on the ring floor after the fight in Las Vegas. — Mailonline.