The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter CAPS UNITED got a morale booster ahead of their Castle Lager Premiership football tie against Whawha at Ascot today after Chitungwiza-based Octopus Gases donated 50 pairs of tracksuits to the club yesterday. The kind gesture comes barely 24 hours after the Green Machine had called on their supporters to bail them financially. The tracksuits valued at over US$2 000 was handed over after yesterday’s morning training session and CAPS United chief executive, Charlie Jones, said they are happy that the corporates are coming on board at the right time. “We are really happy with this kind gesture from Octopus Gases and it will go a long way in helping the club. “We are in a dire situation like everyone else and to have someone who remembers you must be applauded. “I hope this is the beginning of a long-standing relationship that will last forever. “We are happy that as a club people have faith in us and I owe this to transparency within the club. The club despite, its challenges here and there, is run professionally. “We are hopeful we will have more corporates and individuals coming on board,” said Jones. Octopus Gases, whose chief executive Zvikomborero Kapfeni was not able to attend to the handover, majors in gas supplying. Benson Munyaradzi, who represented Octopus Gases, said they are happy with their relationship with CAPS United and will make sure they will always chip in whenever they can. “We have already had this in our plans before the CAPS United family called on for support and it is good that it came at the right time. It is our role as an upcoming company to give back to the community whenever we can. “We have chosen to support CAPS United as it is the only team among the big three which has no back-up from corporates. it is a team of the people and seeing it not performing well does not bring joy to many. “We are just building a relationship and we promise that we will also source some jerseys for both home and away kits for the team,” said Munyaradzi.