The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter CASTLE Lager Premiership football giants CAPS United are aiming to beat the mid-season transfer window to bring in at least two more players to complement Lloyd Chitembwe’s squad in the fight to move away from the relegation matrix. The ailing Harare giants have been running around in the last few days to make use of the month-long window that closes this weekend. So far they have managed to bring back midfielder Blessing Sarupinda from South Africa, Pawell Govere from Chicken Inn and ex-Dynamos and Harare City winger Emmanuel Mandiranga. The club’s chief executive, Charlie Jones, yesterday told The Herald that Makepekepe are not yet done with the transfer business, after signing the three new additions. “We have so far finalised deals with Sarupinda, Mandiranga and this youngster Govere and we are in the process of negotiating with two other players. “We want two midfielders and will be making an announcement any time this week. I am sure by the time the window closes, we will have gotten some of the guys that we want,” said Jones. Makepekepe have had a poor season by their standards. They have been terribly short in playing personnel, a situation which was worsened by the sacking of four senior players — Ronald Chitiyo, Clive Augusto, Dennis Dauda and Simba Chinani — earlier in the season for leading a mutiny. The club also lost one of their key players, Tatenda Tavengwa, who moved to South Africa after spending barely three months at the Green Machine. They have been struggling to raise a full squad complement, complete with decent substitutes, for match days. The Green Machine, who have also been hit by injuries and the recent suspension of defender Marshal Machazane, had one of their biggest match day squad complement on Sunday when they managed to raise 18 players for the goalless draw against Manica Diamonds at the National Sports Stadium. Mostly, they have been having a thin bench, averaging four infield players, which fell far behind the required numbers and leaving the technical team with no options on the bench. The mid-season window has offered hope to coach Chitembwe who believes prospects are now promising after fielding Sarupinda and Govere for the first time in the goalless draw against Manica Diamonds on Sunday. “It’s a process. I am sure they will get to where they want to get to with time,” he said. Chitembwe is also looking forward to more players coming on board before the close of the window. “It’s an open secret. Any coach would want to have very good players and we are no exception. We want good players. If they are available, then obviously we would want to have them.” Makepekepe are still to get out of the woods after rising one place on the log standings with the point from the draw against Manica Diamonds. They have 23 points from 22 games and trail log leaders FC Platinum by a massive 24 points. CAPS United went through one of their worst phases recently when they lost seven consecutive games in what became a new club record. But they have avoided defeat in the last four outings. “It’s always difficult to come back after losing so many games. But the boys are working very hard. In football there are no shortcuts and you also need to get yourselves organised. “We have been doing that and it’s an ongoing fight. Of course we cannot talk about relegation at this point but we are not taking it for granted. We need to continue picking up points. “The bad phase that we went through recently was a learning curve for the club. I believe we drew some priceless lessons from that as a club and we need to rise up stronger from that bad experience. We know what we are capable of and we are working towards that,” said Jones. But with one win, seven defeats and three draws in their last 11 games, there is still a long way to go. The championship is already beyond them and they would need to double their energies to improve chances of clinching a top eight position this season. CAPS United are in 13th place and only one point away from the drop zone. “If we want to be realistic, we know why we are where we are and everyone knows why,” said Chitembwe. “So the whole idea is to try and take the team out of its current situation. This is the idea so we focused on that and I am sure it’s something that is very much doable and it’s the reason why we are looking forward to the next games with a lot of optimism. “It really needs someone who understands football for one to understand what we mean by good football. When we talk of good football we talk of having control and dominance in a football match. Your chances of winning are very high when you have control and dominance of the game. “So this is basically what we are doing to try and have as much control and dominance as we possibly can so that we enhance our chances of winning matches. “Of course, it’s eluding us but if we hope if we continue working the same way we have been working and dominating matches then we stand a good chance of winning,” said Chitembwe. CAPS United are set to travel to Whawha for their next game.