The Herald Ivan Zhakata-Youth Interactive Correspondent MORE schools are beginning to implement the Education 5.0 method of learning as robotics is being introduced as a subject in different schools around the country. Fletcher High School said they will soon introduce Robotics as a subject in line with 21st century education. Mr Stephen Njini the headmaster of Fletcher High School, said this is a step in the right direction, as this gives children more relevant information and more options in their learning. “We have decided to introduce robotics as a way of moving along with international standards, and thanks to Midlands State University who have chosen to partner us in this journey of making education more practical for our students,” Mr Njini said. The subject will be in co-operation with Midlands State University and Nelson Mandela University which are in full support of the project. Dr Chitanana from Midlands State University said, “Am thrilled at the brave steps Fletcher High School has taken to embrace the 4th Industrial Revolution in schools. It is a wonderful program which has the potential to turnaround our academic system. We work with various partners including Nelson Mandela University, UNISA, First Lego League, I-SET Robotics and very soon, Stellenbosch University.” Fletcher High School will be hosting the Zimbabwe Mandela Day Coding Tournament on July 18, 2022. Meanwhile, Tynwald High School has qualified for the global robotics competition after beating 15 countries at the Pan Africa Competition (PARC) 2022 held in Dakar Senegal. PARC 2022 was held in Senegal and had three leagues in which teams can competed with Techs League, where middle school pupils worked on improving the availability of safe drinking water, sanitation, and energy. Runako Kundishora participated in the Stars League with Wayne Mangwiro, Tatenda Mhetu and Ashley Zvinavashe in which she said the team had belief which is testament by the fact that Zimbabwe won the best team spirit award. She said, “We had all the ingredients of a hungry and determined team, which is why we won the best team spirit award.” Stars League, in which high school pupils worked on adaptability to climate change. Makers League, also high school students, are challenged to end hunger in Africa. Teams were judged on their robotics performance, poster and oral presentations. Nyasha Munguri who participated with four other pupils in the Makers League said, “The competition was tough, but we managed to muscle ourselves into qualifying for the global championships to be held in Switzerland. We believe we can conquer because we have the best coach around.” The other participants of the Makers League were Tafadzwa Mutisi, Anesu Vhevha, Mufaro Muramwi and Micheal Mukwakwami, all are Lower Sixth pupils at Tynwald. Teams that participated were given robot kits, which they were allowed to keep at the end of the competition. Tinomudaishe Chirimunjiri, Mvindi Kudzai and Tanastwa Taremba completed the 15 pupil team and they participated in the Tech League. Mvindi however encouraged other schools to participate in teaching robotics. “We would like to encourage more schools to introduce robotics in the country, we need to have district to national competitions as well. We can only get better from there as they say ‘iron sharpens iron’. The robotics competition seeks to expose innovation and artificial intelligence in pupils. The competitors have to build industrial -size robots and play difficult field games with the goal of appreciating science, technology, engineering and mathematics challenges in local communities. Tynwald won the inaugural Pan Africa competition in 2021.