The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabawe Davis Cup tennis team captain Freeman Nyamunokora is confident they stand a good chance to get promoted back to the World Group II play-offs when they play in the Africa Group III in Algiers, Algeria, next month. The event is running from August 10 to 13 featuring hosts Algeria, Benin, Cote d’Ivoire, Kenya, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia and Zimbabwe. Three nations will be promoted to the World Group II play-offs and two nations will be relegated to Africa Group IV. Zimbabwe were relegated to the Africa Group III after losing to El Salvador in the World Group II play-offs at Harare Sports Club in March. “We have got a good chance to get back. But we really want to focus on performing on the court and not thinking really what we are on paper. There are also dark horses there. We have got countries like Cote d’Ivoire, Namibia and Benin, they have got experienced players. “So definitely Morocco and Zimbabwe are the tough teams there but we definitely want to focus on each match as we play so that we don’t get too relaxed and think it’s a given since there are three teams being promoted. “It can be tricky because every nation has got a very good player,” said Nyamunokora. He will be leading a team that consists of Benjamin and Courtney Lock, Mehluli Sibanda and Thabo Ncube. Tennis Zimbabwe are also hoping to send junior player Tinaye Badza as part of their development efforts. Nyamunokora, who captained the team in 2011 and 2012, takes over from Gwinyai Tongoona. He admitted that taking over when the team is seeking promotion is tough but having worked with the players before, he believes it will come in handy. “It’s always good to be recognised and obviously since 2012 it’s now 10 years, I have gained a lot of experience and obviously back then Benji was like 19 (years old) in 2012 and now he is 29. We have been working together. “Benji and Courtney I work with them personally as their personal coach. “I hope it will be of benefit to the team that I have worked with Mehluli, I have travelled with them as juniors. So what I can only do, is do my best to help the nation to get back into Group II and maybe progress into Group I or stay in Group II. “The guys are ready. Benji had a good week last week in Kazakhstan. Courtney had a good week also, he has been playing in Portugal . . . They are quite active and having some good results. So we should be able to come out of this Group, so hopefully next year we are back into Group II.