The Herald LONDON. — Manchester United have reportedly agreed deals for both Frenkie de Jong and Lisandro Martinez in a £118million double swoop. The Red Devils are claimed to have reached a “full agreement” with Barcelona regarding De Jong. But personal terms are still claimed to be an issue — with De Jong eager to stay in Spain. Italian journalist Fabrizio Romano reports the two clubs have come to an agreement on a fee following further talks. That is believed to be a guaranteed £63m, which could then rise to £72m with add-ons. And the Red Devils have also had a £46m bid accepted for Ajax defender Martinez, according to talkSPORT. The 24-year-old is set to become the club’s second arrival of the summer following the £13m signing of Tyrell Malacia from Feyenoord. United are understood to have beaten Arsenal to the signing of the Argentinian centre-back. But the Red Devils are facing a battle to convince De Jong (25) to join Erik ten Hag’s Old Trafford revolution. Personal terms remain an “issue”, with De Jong himself reluctant to leave the Nou Camp. The Dutch midfielder has been a key target for United throughout the transfer window. The Red Devils have been locked in negotiations with the Spanish giants for weeks regarding a move for the De Jong. Reports earlier this month suggested United and Barca had agreed a deal worth £56m, but they were dismissed by president Joan Laporta. United chiefs Richard Arnold and John Murtough flew to Spain earlier this week to discuss a deal with Barcelona director of football Mateu Alemany. Ten Hag is keen on a reunion with De Jong after the pair worked together at Ajax. And while the Red Devils and Barca are finally said to have reached an agreement over a transfer, it is claimed De Jong’s “priority” is to stay in Spain. Reports on Wednesday suggested his agents have informed Barcelona he will not be leaving this summer. De Jong was scheduled to hold talks with Barca on Monday regarding his future upon his return for pre-season training. United had been eager to wrap things up before this weekend, and while a fee has been agreed, the club now face the tricky prospect of negotiating personal terms with the midfielder. — The Sun.