The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter DYNAMOS executive chairman Isaiah Mupfurutsa has come out in full support of beleaguered coach Tonderai Ndiraya while his colleagues are calling for the former DeMbare midfielder’s ouster. Ndiraya is increasingly under pressure following a poor run in the Castle Lager Premiership football that has seen the Glamour Boys winning just a single match in their last six games. And calls have been getting louder for him to step down from the local game’s biggest seat. On Sunday, supporters from Dynamos’ Marondera chapter, understood to have been bussed and hired to discredit Ndiraya by some members of the executive, called the gaffer out following a goalless stalemate with Triangle at the National Sports Stadium. But Mupfurutsa has been resolute in his support of Ndiraya ever since the former Ngezi Platinum coach re-joined Dynamos from a brief suspension two months ago. However, The Herald understands there is friction between the Harare banker and his colleagues in the executive who are determined to see the coach’s back. Reports say when Ndiraya was reinstated following that suspension, of course after a public outcry, the executive voted on whether to let the gaffer stay to which only Mupfurutsa approved. And Ndiraya has been under scrutiny ever since with each game he has failed to pick the maximum points, shaking the ground further. However, Mupfurutsa denied that the executive was divided over the future of the gaffer. “Like you said it’s rumours and I can’t comment much on that. It’s difficult to tell what someone is thinking. What I can say is we are backing our coach and his charges. “As the club’s chairman, I am happy with the coach’s achievements so far and we need to give him time,” said Mupfurutsa. “Let me say the team is doing well judging by where we are sitting on the log table (third position and within reach of the top position). At the moment we are only going through a bad phase which is common in football. However, we are confident that this will be over and we will go on a purple patch once again. “We still have 14 games to go and a lot will happen in the league. Remember, even those on top were at some point behind us and they went through the bad phase and we shot to the top. “Now we are in a bad phase while they have entered a good phase and recovered. This shows how things can be in soccer. We are still a strong contender (for the league title) and will go all the way. “It’s like in a war. You can lose one of the battles but not the war. In the end the winner of the war will still count some battles lost. “We just need to stay focused as the Dynamos family and rally behind the coach and his entire technical team and players. We urge all our fans and stakeholders to continue rallying behind the team. We will conquer together.” Dynamos face Cranborne Bullets in their next match at Vengere on Saturday.