The Herald MELBOURNE. — Anthony Martial produced an eye-catching performance as he scored one and made another to help Manchester United sweep aside fellow English Premiership football side Crystal Palace 3-1 in a pre-season friendly match at the MCG in Melbourne, Australia, yesterday. In another performance of quality and high tempo at one of the world’s finest grounds, United kept up their 100 per cent start to pre-season with Martial again on target after scoring in both of their previous wins over Melbourne Victory and Liverpool. The Frenchman first took Diogo Dalot’s cross down and finished smartly, with full debutant Tyrell Malacia involved in the build-up, before playing a part in Marcus Rashford’s second moments after half-time thanks to a lovely touch and pass. Martial then made United’s third, against a Palace side missing a number of their first-team squad, with a first-time pass releasing Jadon Sancho on the break, from which the winger’s powerful finish put the result beyond doubt. Minutes after a raft of changes for both sides Joel Ward headed in a consolation for the Eagles, but those substitutions killed the momentum of both sides and Will Fish’s clumsy red card late on was the only moment of note for either in the closing stages. United’s only other major disappointment came from the crowd at the MCG, with Harry Maguire’s name booed ahead of kick-off and throughout the opening 45 minutes — but the club captain shrugged off the criticism and nearly scored with a 20-yard first-half drive. Wilfried Zaha, Christian Benteke and Cheikh Doucoure are among the Crystal Palace players who have had to remain in England for a variety of issues, and an under-strength Eagles side were largely blown away by Manchester United’s pace attack at the birthplace of test cricket. Martial, Rashford and Sancho proved too lively for Patrick Vieira’s defence with each of the United front three on target, while Fred and Scott McTominay played their part in an effective high press, providing a defensive screen which kept Palace camped inside their own half for large parts of the game. Ten Hag will be pleased with how his side operated without the ball, but with it they showed signs of confidence and cohesion rarely seen in United sides of recent years. — Sky Sports0