The Herald Oscar Rusenga in Triangle Triangle  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 ZPC Kariba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . 0 A 10-man ZPC Kariba held Triangle United to a goalless draw in this Castle Lager Premiership football match  at Gibbo yesterday. The visitors had to play the 15 minutes of the game one man down after veteran defender Byron Madzokere was shown a straight red card by referee Busani Siwawa after consulting with fourth official Jimmy Makwanda following an off the ball incident involving Triangle captain Donald Ngoma. Chances were few and far between in the opening half as both sides were cautious. The home side, however got a good chance, in the 15th minute where Tinashe Kabanda failing to generate enough power to trouble ZPC goalkeeper Tapiwa Chilenga after a good pass from Gerald Bhero. The second half was more lively and the host were unlucky to get onto the score sheet after several raids down the right by man of the match Jameson Mukombwe. Emmaculate Mawuna was first to be denied by Chilenga in the 48th minute before Ngoma crashed his effort against woodwork two minutes later. Walter Sande had a good shot cleared off the line a minute later, all the telling crosses came from Mukombwe and his effort needed a bit of justice but ZPC toiled and managed to shut the door. Despite having a numerical advantage following the sending off of Madzokere in the 75th minute, Triangle still couldn’t find a way of breaking the deadlock. Neither of the two coaches was convinced with the draw as both coaches felt it was two points lost than a point gained. “It’s a good point considering that  we were playing away from home but it’s a disappointing result because we are in the relegation zone. We need to pick up points going forward but the two points eluded us today. “There are still a lot of games to be played but if we continue loosing points it’s going to be  difficult,” said ZPC Kariba coach Rodwell Dhlakama. “It’s a frustrating draw, we are losing too many points at home. We had so many chances in the second half, we just needed one to finish off the game but we failed to convert. I am just happy that we are getting into those scoring positions and we just need to work on our finishing,” said Triangle coach Jairos Tapera. Teams Triangle: Taurai Chitsumba, Jameson Mukombwe, Tawanda Musariri, Kelvin Gwao, Tawanda Chisi, Tawanda Karembo, Tinashe Kabanda (Dzingai Chirambamuriwo 80th min), Walter Sande, Emmaculate Mawuna (Tinotenda Mutyambizi 90th min), Gerald Bhero (Simbarashe Verenga 80th min), Donald Ngoma. ZPC Kariba: Tapiwa Chilenga, Parkington Mazhawu, Brlyron Madzokere, Diro Nyenye, Munyaradzi Kunyarimwe, Collen Muleya, Vassilli Kawe (Kudzanai Dhemere 57th min), Brian Juru, Samuel Makawa, Fanuel Shoko, Newman Sianchali.