The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter THE inaugural Harare Sports Tourism Expo was launched yesterday with Zimbabwe Tourism Authority and City of Harare showing support for the events that will be held at the University of Zimbabwe next weekend. The event, which is the brainchild of Sports Tourism Expo, who have partnered Zimbabwe Tourism Authority, Harare City Council and Chitungwiza Municipality, will have events such as golf, basketball, volleyball, football, darts, chess, netball, basketball, tug of war, tennis and the Greater Harare Marathon, among several others. The University of Zimbabwe will play host to most indoor games with golf set for the Police Golf Club. ZTA representative, Herzel Zisane, said they are glad to be part of the Harare Sports Tourism Expo which will help promote tourism and healthy living in the country. “We are happy and rallying behind the first ever Sports Tourism Expo in Harare. We encourage the organisers to take the idea to all corners of the country and not to have a bias towards towns and cities alone. “I think we have had the games mostly in tourism destinations and it’s high time we take it to other places even in the rural areas. There is need to promote tourism and we should give every part of the country a chance. I understand the Nyanga event held in May was a success and I would like to believe that the Harare and upcoming Victoria Falls event to be held from September 22-25 will also bear results,” said Zisane. Malvin Karenjere, the public relations officer of Sports Tourisms Expo, said their aim is to bring fitness and wellness to the communities and promote sports festivals. “I am glad with the partnership we have had with Zimbabwe Tourism Authority, City of Harare and Chitungwiza Municipality to hold the first ever Harare Sports Tourism Games. “The support we have from Ministry of Sports, through the Sports Commission, has given us the desire to successfully host the games. There will be several sports codes which are aimed at promoting fitness and wellness, sports interaction and domestic tourism,” said Karenjere.