The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter HOSTS Zimbabwe will be looking to capitalise on Bangladesh’s recent poor run in T20I cricket when the teams resume their cricket rivalries in the shortest format of the game at Harare Sports Club this afternoon. Play is set to start at 1pm. The hosts are in high spirits after sealing their place at this year’s ICC Men’s T20 World Cup following a successful run in the global qualifier hosted in Bulawayo recently. On the other hand, Bangladesh arrived in Zimbabwe for the three-match series after experiencing a bag of mixed fortunes on their recent tour of West Indies. The Chevrons captain Craig Ervine and his opposite number Nurul Hasan Sohan yesterday promised high level competition when they appeared for the pre-series press conference. “I feel like we have come off a good week down in Bulawayo during the qualifiers,” said Ervine. “So I do feel that we have a bit of momentum on our side, going into this series. I know that Bangladesh’s recent history in the T20Is hasn’t been particularly good. So we are just looking to carrying the momentum that we had in Bulawayo and carry it to Harare. “We have sort of hanged a bit of our mindset as to how we approach T20I cricket and I think a lot of people might have seen it in Bulawayo. If only we can play more of that positive fearless cricket.” Zimbabwe have been struggling in the last few years but the arrival of head coach Dave Houghton, for his second stint with the side, has ushered in fresh hope. However, the Chevrons have had it tough against the Tigers who have won 11 of the 16 meetings. Zimbabwe have not won a series against Bangladesh. The last time that Zimbabwe won an ODI game against Bangladesh was in May 2013 when they came back from behind to record their last series win against the Asians at Queens Sports Club. Zimbabwe have retained the squad that played at the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup Qualifier, although fast bowlers Tendai Chatara and Blessing Muzarabani will miss out through injury. In the duo’s absence, Victor Nyauchi has been brought in to boost the pace attack options. Chatara suffered a collarbone fracture while Muzarabani sustained a thigh muscle tear during the qualifying tournament held in Bulawayo earlier this month. Their replacements during that eight-team contest, all-rounder Tony Munyonga and pace bowler Tanaka Chivanga, have also been retained in the squad that will take on Bangladesh. Ervine said winning the series will be key for Zimbabwe to boost their confidence ahead of tougher assignments ahead, leading to the ICC T20 Men’s Cricket World Cup to be hosted by Australia in October. Prior to the global showcase, Zimbabwe are also set to play India and Australia in limited overs games. “The World Cup is still a long way away so I don’t think we would look at this series as part of the preparations but it’s more of just trying to create that sort of winning culture moving forward. “We have won five out of five in Bulawayo and we don’t want to stop there. We would like to carry on,” said Ervine. Bangladesh brought a fairly young squad to Zimbabwe after leaving out some of their senior players like Mushfiqur Rahim, Shakib Al Hasan and the T20I skipper Mahmudullah. Wicketkeeper-batter Nurul Hasan was will lead the side but only for the upcoming three-match series against Zimbabwe. “I can’t say this is an inexperienced team because all the boys have been playing cricket for the last six-seven years. So I think we are experienced enough. I am happy with the team and we are ready to take the challenge,” said Hasan. “Zimbabwe are good in their conditions but at the same time we are not coming here for fun. We are here to win the series. So that’s the main thing for us. “The conditions are a little bit different but at the same time we don’t want to give any excuses,” said Hasan. The teams are set to meet again tomorrow, with the third match set for Tuesday at the same venue. Ervine urged the fans to come and fill up the Harare Sports Club. Zimbabwe Cricket have set the ticket prices at US$2 for the rest of the ground, US$3 for the Embankment side and US$5 for the Centurion. Pensioners and children in full school uniforms are set to get in for free. All the supporters attending the games are required to present proof of Covid-19 vaccination. Zimbabwe T20I Squad: Burl Ryan, Chakabva Regis, Chivanga Tanaka, Ervine Craig (captain), Jongwe Luke, Kaia Innocent, Madhevere Wessly, Marumani Tadiwanashe, Masakadza Wellington, Munyonga Tony, Ngarava Richard, Nyauchi Victor, Raza Sikandar, Shumba Milton, Williams Sean Bangladesh T20I Squad: T20I: Munim Shahriar, Anamul Haque Bijoy, Liton Das, Afif Hossain, Nurul Hasan Sohan(C), Mahedi Hasan, Nasum Ahmed, Taskin Ahmed, Shoriful Islam Mustafizur Rahman, Hasan Mahmud, Mosaddek Hossain, Najmul Hossain Shanto, Mehedy Hasan Miraz, Parvez Hossain Emon