The Herald BIRMINGHAM. — Africa has the capacity to host its first-ever Commonwealth Games in the future, according to one official involved in organising the quadrennial event. This year’s Games — the 22nd edition — begin in Birmingham, England, today, but were originally planned to be held in South Africa. Durban was named as 2022 host city in September 2015 but had to step down in March 2017 because of financial constraints. Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF) regional vice-president Miriam Moyo is confident that Africa has the wherewithal to stage. “Definitely, Africa will host these Games one of these days,” she told BBC Sport Africa. “South Africa attempted to host but things did not work out. That’s the number one sign to show that Africa would want to host. I’m sure one day, maybe South Africa may come on board.” The Games, which were first held in Canada in 1930, feature athletes from 72 countries – mostly former British colonies. However, the last four countries to join the Commonwealth of Nations — Rwanda, Mozambique, Gabon, and Togo — have no historical ties to the British Empire. All member nations have signed up to a set of values including democracy, gender equality and international peace and security. As the continent with the highest member nations (21), Africa has never hosted the games, and thee Nigerian capital city of Abuja made an unsuccessful bid to stage the 2014 Games, which took place in Glasgow. Africa has hosted major events before, with South Africa staging the men’s Rugby and FIFA (football) World Cups in 1995 and 2010 respectively. However, the cost of staging the Commonwealth Games is a factor for potential bidders, with the total budget for Birmingham 2022 expected to be £778m (US$935m). Since 2002, India’s capital Delhi is the only city outside of the UK or Australia to welcome athletes from the Commonwealth, with the 2026 event set for Australian state Victoria. Moyo, a former president of the National Olympic Committee of Zambia, said only a few African countries have the facilities to organise the Games — which will feature 26 different sports in Birmingham. “The expense will always be there. Those are things which are under discussion by the Commonwealth Games Federation, what can we do to reduce the expense,” she added. “Like; what will Africa present, what can we offer, what can be done for us to host these Games? And I’m sure, Africa would definitely go for it. — BBC Sport Africa