The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter GREENFUEL coach Lloyd “Samaita’’ Mutasa has warned his charges to guard against complacency when they visit Zaka Academy tomorrow. The Lowveld side have opened a nine-point gap at the top with nine games still to be played in the Eastern Region Division One Soccer League. And with their rivals, including second-placed Mutare City Rovers, inconsistent, it is GreenFuel who appear to have it their way in the quest to win promotion into the Premier Soccer League. But, Mutasa, a veteran when it comes to helping lower league teams get elevated having done so twice in the past, would rather urge his players to remain grounded. “We are gunning for promotion, that is the vision of this institution and I was entrusted to deliver that mandate. “I am happy we are on track but we can never afford to let that thought occupy our minds,” said Mutasa. “We still have a lot of work to do. We should take it one game at a time. “The idea is to forget about games that we would have played and focus on the next assignment. “It’s about remaining competitive, staying focused and keeping the eye on the goal. Otherwise, we cannot put ourselves under pressure by starting to think that we are now closer to the target. “Zaka Academy is a very tricky opponent and we should always try to focus.” GreenFuel are one of the teams in the Eastern Region Division One Soccer League with loads of players who have previously seen action in the Premier Soccer League with the likes of captain Obey Mwerehari, Tinashe Mukanhairi, Ishmael Lawe, Takudzwa Mahori, Livingstone Genti and Chris Mverechena all in their fold. Meanwhile, it’s still touch and go in the Northern Region Division Soccer League where Herentals Under-20 lead the standings with 46 points to their name, just three ahead of Simba Bhora and Golden Eagles. The leaders are away to CUMA at Rimuka tomorrow while Simba Bhora host Trojan in a Mashonaland Central derby at Wadzanai and Golden Eagles host Come Again at Ellis Robins. Hwange have a chance to open a six-point gap at the summit in the Southern Region if they can overcome Binga Pirates at home as closest rivals Arenel will be on the sidelines as their game against Indonsakusa has been frozen. In the Central Region, leaders Sheasham will be gunning for the maximum points to consolidate their position when they host Bishopstone at Gweru Sports Club. All Division One fixtures Eastern Region Tomorrow: ProMelfort v Ruwa Progroup (Melfort); Buffaloes v Manica Diamonds Jnrs (Mutare Show Grounds); JM Busha 54 v FC Wangu Mazodze (Chikondoma); Nzuma Bar v Masvingo Utd (postponed); Zaka Academy v GreenFuel (Jerera); Chiredzi Stars v Lowveld Utd (Chishamiso); Mutare City v Grayham (Sakubva); Surrey v Renco (Surrey). Northern Region Tomorrow: CUMA v Herentals U20 (Rimuka); Harare City Cubs v Cam & Motor (Rufaro); Golden Eagles v Come Again (Ellis Robins); Commando Bullets v Chinyoyi Stars (Commando); Simba Bhora v Trojan (Wadzanai); Chegutu Pirates v Black Mambas (Chakari); Karoi United v Golden Valley (Chikangwe). Sunday: Banket v PAM (Chinhoyi). Central Region Tomorrow: TelOne v Loss Control (Ascot); Dulibadzimu Utd v MSU (Ronnie’s Mabhidzhi); Sheasham v Bishopstone (Gweru Sports Club); Vumbachikwe v Kwekwe Utd (Long John); Filabusi Utd v Chapungu (Filabusi). Sunday: FC Platinum Under-19 v ZPC Munyati (Mandava); Paramount Utd v Tongogara (ZRP Gokwe). Southern Region Tomorrow: Indonsakusa v Arenel (postponed); Quality Foods v CIWA (White City B Arena); Indlovu Iyanyathela v Makhandeni (Luveve B Arena); ZPC Hwange v Talen Vision (Ingagula); Bosso 90 v Mountain Climbers (Luveve); Casmyn v Ratanang (Turk Mine); Main Line v Zimbabwe Saints (Plumtree); Hwange v Binga Pirates (Hwange). Sunday: Ajax Hotspurs v Mosi Rovers (White City).