The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter FORMER ZIFA president Cuthbert Dube has hailed the efforts by the incumbent executive committee to work closely with Government and all the stakeholders in their quest to resuscitate the domestic game. Dube, who was removed from office in 2015 via a vote of no confidence, yesterday met the ZIFA leadership fronted by their interim president Gift Banda at his residence in Harare. The veteran football administrator and business executive acknowledged the challenges the game has faced over the years, including his own mistakes and those made by his successors, leading to the current suspension of Zimbabwe’s membership at FIFA. Dube said the domestic game needed input from all interested parties to regain its former glory, and urged Government to play a bigger part since football is a source of livelihood and employment for many. He said the animosity that existed between the previous executives and authorities was destructive. “The way you have engaged the Government; it’s very important. You don’t bite the finger that feeds you. While there are some criticisms here and there, you cannot afford to fight the Government if they are still giving you some money. “The other thing that I also think you should do is to make sure that ZIFA’s operations become the responsibility of the central government. “When you go to some other countries, not far away from us, you will find that the governments are putting in a lot of money into football. It’s their responsibility. “They must take football because it is a very important structure. You talk of employment opportunities for footballers, officials some of whom are bread winners with extended families. So it can be one of the biggest employers in the country,” said Dube. ZIFA are currently undertaking engagements with former president of the association as part of the board’s new policy to mend the bridges and get all parties contributing to the success of the domestic game. Last week they paid a courtesy call on former president Phillip Chiyangwa, who promised to assist with re-engagements with FIFA and other football bodies. Dube said the engagement was a pleasant surprise, especially coming seven years after he had left the boardroom. “I think you will go into the hall of fame as the first board that has decided to call upon past leaders of football. This is commendable. I didn’t do it, I never thought about it and quite honestly the issue that you are now doing of trying to get all the past football leaders together is highly appreciated,” said Dube. “This attitude of fighting each other; people must learn to be humble, to swallow their pride, forget the past, even the bible talks of reconciliation. You must continue with this trajectory. “Most of the football leadership in our region, those that were there yesterday and those in office, are always fighting. They don’t talk to each other. “But we must learn to engage. It is important because all we can do is to strengthen football. I know we are crying at the moment because we are not playing AFCON and CHAN qualifiers but there is always a season for everything. “I know the people of this country, we are football fanatics, so try to rebuild it. We have failed, some of us, when we were leading in certain areas. But try to make sure that when the right moment comes, you will have a great football nation once again. We have got the talent, there is no doubt about it. “I hope potential sponsors are actually seeing and appreciating what you are doing as a board because sponsors come on board where there is peace and unity. Where there are fights, especially against those that feed you, there is a problem because they will desert you one by one. “And when they leave you, mostly they go silently. There is a saying that says when times are hard, friends are few, and far. You will not see them, ask me. I have gone through that phase,” said Dube.