The Herald OREGON. — Tobi Amusan has become a world record holder and a world champion in the 100m hurdles, but she still remembers her father burning her running gear. A fourth-placed finisher at both the 2019 World Athletics Championships and the delayed 2020 Tokyo Olympics, the Nigerian’s persistence has finally seen her engrave her name into the track and field record books. The 25-year-old ran a time of 12.12 seconds — shaving almost a tenth of a second off the previous world record — in the semi-finals of the World Championships in Oregon before going on to win gold in the final. However, it always seemed as if the odds were stacked against her running career from the beginning. “My parents are both teachers, they are strict disciplinarians,” Amusan told BBC Sport Africa. “When you grow up in such a family, they feel you should focus on school. And being a female, they think you are going to go astray, lose focus and all of that. “But because my mum saw what I didn’t see (in) myself, she felt she could give me a chance. And she kept telling me not to disappoint her. “My mum would tell my dad I was going to church while I sneaked to practice or tell him I was going to a school debate while I went to an out-of-state competition. That’s where it all started. “My dad got really mad one time when he found out [I was running]. He burnt all my training gear and told my mum that’s the last time he wanted to see me in a stadium.” Fast forward several years, and tears of joy flowed freely as Amusan stood on the top step of the podium at Hayward Field on a historic day for Nigeria, which saw the country’s national anthem played at the World Athletics Championships for the first time ever. “It has not sunk in yet, maybe the magnitude of what just happened it will hit me later,” she said. “I go out there and put 100% in every championship and it’s just never enough. Every time it’s a fourth-place finish. “Then this time my 100% is not only a gold medal but a world record. Trusting myself just made everything easier. I’m thankful to the man above for keeping me healthy. When God says it’s your time, it’s your time.” Her father may have doubted her, but Amusan has always had plenty of belief in her own ability. Back in November 2016 she tweeted: “Unknown now but soon I will be unforgettable, I will persist until I succeed.” That message has remained pinned to the top of her social media profile and provides a summary of her rise to glory in Eugene. Yet her journey into athletics started as somewhat of an accident at Our Lady of Apostles Secondary School in Ogun state, Nigeria. — BBC Sport Africa