The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter WHEN the final whistle blew at the Stade Maurice David Aix-en-Provence in France on Wednesday night, it didn’t only signal the end of this Rugby Africa Cup semi-final showdown pitting Southern Africa rivals Zimbabwe and Namibia. The Sables players, who probably had surrendered the tie long before the regulatory 80 minutes, had grief written all over their faces. They had been outplayed and the 19-34 score was a true reflection of what transpired on that lush turf. The 2023 World Cup dreams up in flames. The match was intense, especially in the opening five minutes until somehow the Sables allowed their opponents to plant a try which they converted from which they (the Sables) never recovered. The Sables battled hard and even gave themselves a chance to level the scoreboard but once Tapiwa Mafura failed to convert Cleopas Kundiona’s try, there would never be a way back. Instead, the galloping Namibians surged ahead, stretching their lead even further and they were 14-5 to the good at the break. The second half was never going to be any easier. The dream was fading. And the wait continues. The Sables last played in the Rugby World Cup finals in 1991 and on several occasions they appeared to be standing a chance to qualify. But at the end, just like what happened on Wednesday night, it would always be a case of near misses. Some have called upon the authorities to drop coach Brendan Dawson. But is he to blame for the continued failure? Captain Hilton Mudariki yesterday said his charges gave it their all but it was not enough to upset the Namibians whom the Sables last beat in 2001. So dominant have been Namibia over Zimbabwe that they have now recorded 31 victories over the Sables in 34 outings. The Sables will now seek a consolation win over Algeria in the third-place play-off on Sunday. “It didn’t go our way as we anticipated. It’s a toughone to swallow. We are just resting so that we can prepare for the third place play-off against Algeria. We will obviously need a debrief of the Namibia game after our recovery then plan for Sunday against Algeria,” said Mudariki. They will be seeking consolation to finish in third place against the Algerians who gave Kenya a real scare in the other semi-final on Wednesday. Fans have expressed mixed feelings over the latest World Cup qualification setback. A Namibian, Deon Alcock, felt the Sables had given his team a good run for their money. “As a Namibian, I’m impressed by the way the Sables played tonight (on Wednesday). Good intensity and attack-minded. Just little errors in final phases. Zim Rugby is definitely on the up,” said Alcock. Leon Rosen questioned some refereeing decisions in this match. “Good effort Sables. (I) Did question a few referee’s decisions. However, Zimbabwe had a few good opportunities. (They committed) just some basic mistakes that Namibia took advantage of.” Michael Green believes the team did well and with more support they can scale dizzy heights. “As a fellow Miltonian (Milton Sports Club) and friend of (coach) Brendan Dawson, I want to express my gratitude to you Dawsy (Dawson), you have done a fantastic job with your team of coaches and backroom staff to put an exciting Zimbabwe rugby team together tonight (on Wednesday). “Despite the small amount of resources, you guys have done well and I am so proud to be a Zimbabwean. Well done to all the players you are all heroes.” A Sables legend, Gerald Sibanda, who spent years playing in the European top-tier leagues, apportioned the blame on Dawson. “My opinion could upset a lot of people but I want to be honest. The coach (Dawson) has failed us since 2007, we have failed to qualify for four World Cups under his watch with three generations of potentially good players . . . ,” said Sibanda. Zimbabwe have won just three games in 34 matches they have faced Namibia.