The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter SOUTH African Premiership football club SuperSport United yesterday were forced to issue a statement distancing themselves from a possible takeover by Zimbabwean businessman Strive Masiyiwa after reports indicating the billionaire was lining up investment with the club had raised a storm on social media. The Zimbabwean telecommunications mogul, and founder of Econet Global Telecommunications Company, found himself at the centre of a raging debate with some questioning why he had to shun local football which is in dire need of a financial kiss of life. The storm was also felt across the Limpopo where comparisons between Masiyiwa and Mamelodi Sundowns owner Patrice Motsepe also took centre stage. However, SuperSport United said their club is not on sale. The club, which is home to Zimbabwean players Onisimor Bhasera and George Chigova, broke their silence in a statement from the management to the players and officials, addressing the swirling rumours that they wanted to dispose of the club. Reports from South Africa had indicated that Masiyiwa was in line to buy the club. South Africa’s Bidvest Wits were also reported to be interested in the takeover. This is the third time that SuperSport United, which is owned by MultiChoice Group, has been linked with a possible sale but the club has on all occasions dismissed the proposition. “SuperSport United has been made aware of the old repeated rumours and speculation regarding the potential sale of the club. Please note that these rumours are completely untrue,” SuperSport United said in a brief statement. They also threatened to take legal action. “As stated when these false rumours started in 2019, the club is not for sale. The club is seeking legal advice on the publications or persons involved in continually issuing these false statements,” read the statement. According to iDiski Times, SuperSport United has long been mooted to be sold amidst the reported financial constraints at the club which has notably seen its business model changeover the last decade. Most of the Zimbabwean football fanatics said they felt local football needed Masiyiwa’s investment more than a Supa Disk club. “I wish Strive could get a team in Zimbabwe and sponsor them like Motsepe does with Sundowns,” tweeted Paul M. in response to The Herald’s online story about SuperSport denying the links with Masiyiwa. Another Twitter user Jason Shazhiwe drew varied responses after he also aired similar concerns. “So Strive Masiwa wants to buy SuperSport United club from South Africa, whilst here in Zimbabwe we have collapsing football clubs who needs sponsor . . . ” tweeted Shazhiwe. There were mixed responses to the Tweet. Others felt Zimbabwean football, which has been facing administrative challenges for several years, needed fixing first in order to attract business. The Sports and Recreation Commission are currently seized with the matter as they look to have ZIFA back in the FIFA family stronger after the association’s membership was suspended. “He’s a businessman and he’s bound to venture into businesses that give him satisfactory returns rather than losses. Our football here is still in shambles and still no signs of a better future,” said a Twitter handle going by the name Data Boi. “Football is business not charity. Strive has no obligation to sponsor anyone. Why are people so entitled?” asked a Twitter user by the name Tawanda. Some referenced to the mid-2000s debacle when Masiyiwa’s Econet was forced to withdraw sponsorship of the domestic league after wrangles arose with another telecommunications company, NetOne, who sponsored giants CAPS United then. “Masiyiwa was hard done when he wanted to sponsor the PSL. He was blocked through CAPS United’s sponsored intransigence. Obviously there could be other reasons like goodwill & return on investment,” said Bernard Muchemwa. South African Twitter user by the name Xolani Melchi said: “He needs to go build football in Zimbabwe. Buying SuperSport is not good for Zimbabwean football. He needs to sponsor and buy teams from the Zimbabwean league, just like Motsepe (with Sundowns). “Strive has the capacity to make the Zimbabwean league great. All I am saying, Zimbabwe’s league needs Strive. He is their hope for a better league. We can’t be selfish. He must be encouraged to build that league. In South Africa, Motsepe is building.” A section of South African football fans believed if the transaction had gone through, that would have meant the end of Sundowns’ dominance in the DStv Premiership. They argued a team with an almost equal financial muscle would also fight for the best players available on the market, thereby giving the Brazilians the competition. “It’s okay let them come (billionaires). Look, for example, Motsepe is running the show alone by winning the league five times in a row. So we need such hungry billionaires to come and pump money into our teams,” tweeted Raagwe Rosirang. “Another billionaire in the league is good, it means more financial muscle for SuperSport and more competition in the league. Let’s just hope he doesn’t make drastic changes, like changing the name or moving them to Limpopo,” added Tyrique Burger. Others joked that SuperSport United would immediately change its name and that their home games would be played in Zimbabwe.