The Herald Ellina Mhlanga–Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S hopes for a change of fortunes at the World Athletics Championships were quashed yesterday morning when triple jumper Chengetayi Mapaya failed to go past the qualification round in Eugene, Oregon, the United States. Mapaya finished on position 12 in Group B when leaping 15.75m, in the qualification round that took place in the early hours of yesterday morning (Zimbabwean time). There were two groups – Group A and Group B – for the qualification round. The United States-based Zimbabwean triple jumper made two foul attempts out of a possible three and his distance of 15.75m was not good enough to progress to the final. The qualifying performance to the final was 17.05 or at least 12 best performances. The National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe were pinning their hopes on Mapaya for a medal or at least to reach the final, taking into account his build-up and qualification to the meet. He recorded a 17.26m jump last month to book his place at the World Championships, setting a new personal best in the process. But things didn’t go as expected after he made two foul attempts out of a possible three.  Lisimati Phakamile, who is in charge of the team for this meet, said it was a bad day in the office for Mapaya. “Chengetayi did not do well in his qualifying rounds after he made two foul attempts out of a possible three, and couldn’’t make it into the finals. “He only managed to leap a disappointing 15.75m in an effort to get his rhythm and back into the competition. But the chances had already been exhausted. “It was a disappointing experience but grateful for the opportunity to perform at such stage, and hope to come back stronger in next year’s edition,” said Phakamile. Zimbabwe had three athletes competing at the championships – Mapaya, sprinter Tinotenda Matiyenga and marathon runner Isaac Mpofu. Out of the three athletes, Zimbabwe’s best performance was from Mpofu in the men’s marathon when he finished on position 10 and set a new national record. Mpofu and Mapaya were competing at the World Athletics Championships for the second time. They were part of the team that represented Zimbabwe in 2019, in Doha, Qatar. Matiyenga was making his debut appearance at the global meet. “It was his first time to represent Zimbabwe at this level of competition. Unfortunately, Tino didn’t push out very well in his 200m event where he bowed out at the heats level. “I should say it was an experience for the young man and a very big learning curve. Tino is actually quite happy about his performance and learnt a lot. He is eager to return in the next World Championships that are on next year,” said Phakamile. The World Athletics Championships usually run on a two-year cycle and were originally scheduled for August 6 to 15, 2021 but after the Covid-19 pandemic pushed the Tokyo 2020 Olympics to 2021, World Athletics postponed the meet to this year. From this competition, athletes shift focus to the next edition which is on next year. Phakamile added that they are not giving up going forward. “Looking at the performance of our team at this stage, we are not giving up. We are basically saying we will start and take it from here. “We will need to improve on a number of situations looking at the track performance, looking at the technical challenges that we came across at the jumps and also looking at the good performance at the marathon field. “We want to start from there, correct one or two issues, one or two items, keep our heads up and come back again a better team in Budapest. “I want to finally commend the athletes that came here for the spirited performance, for the high morale, and the support that they gave to each other as we progressed and competed during the games,” said Phakamile.