The Herald Oscar Rusenga in Chiredzi FORMER Zimbabwe international striker Nelson Maziwisa has signed for Castle Lager Premiership football club Triangle for the third time in his two decades long career. Maziwisa first joined Triangle when he was 16 years-old and represented the lowveld based side when they were still playing in the First Division. Maziwisa also played for Shabanie Mine, FC Platinum as well as Zambian side Kabwe Warriors and most recently Konkola Blades on a six-month contract before his contact expired last February. Maziwisa is remembered for his goalscoring exploits when he won the coveted golden boot award after scoring 18 goals in 2012 for the now-defunct Shabanie Mine. Triangle have been creating a lot of chances and they surely needed a prolific striker to complement veteran forward Donald Ngoma who is currently the club’s top scorer with a paltry six goals after the 22nd round of fixtures. Maziwisa is a proven goalscorer and his tally of 18 goals in a season is yet to be bettered, with strikers failing to break a 15-goal mark in the last 10 seasons. Maziwisa represented Zimbabwe on 12 occasions and his most memorable game was away to Mauritius when he completed a brace either side of Milton Ncube and Tawanda Muparati’s goals in the CHAN qualifiers. Maziwisa, who will be turning 37 on September 7, will be the most senior player at Triangle and his experience will be needed as the Sugar Sugar Boys aim to finish in a respectable position in a season no one gave them a chance after an exodus of the entire coaching staff and core of the team. “We have signed Tawanda Karembo from CAPS United, Tinotenda Mutyambizi from Yadah as well as Matthew Hlabati from Division One side Ruwa. “We also felt we needed to add some firepower in the final third and with Nelson (Maziwisa) available we felt he can give us some goals. “He is an experienced striker who can rub on his experience to the youngsters and make us a better team. “He is not new to the setup at Triangle, he played with the team on two different occasions before and I have also worked with him and he knows the culture here at Triangle and hopefully he will be ready in our next home game,” said coach Jairos Tapera. This weekend Triangle will face a tough test away to Ngezi Platinum after the departure of Benjani Mwaruwari who has been replaced by Takesure Chiragwi as the head coach.