The Herald LONDON. — English Premiership football club West Ham United are “keeping a keen eye” on AFC Bournemouth’s Zimbabwean star Jordan Zemura, according to talkSPORT. Zemura enjoyed a brilliant breakthrough season under Scott Parker last term, making 33 English Championship appearances. The 22-year-old was a breakthrough star for the Cherries last season as he played 33 of the 46 Championship games, scoring three goals and picking up one assist throughout the campaign. Zemura has also broken into the international scene, featuring at this year’s African Cup of Nations for Zimbabwe. But the left-back’s contract situation could leave Cherries vulnerable to approaches from elsewhere. In March, Cherries triggered an option to extend Zemura’s contract until the summer of 2023, with talks ongoing to extend his stay further. But with no new deal yet signed, he, along with a host of other first-team squad members, are heading into the final 12 months of their contracts. And talkSPORT claim fellow English Premier League club West Ham are looking at Zemura as a “potential option” to compete with current left-back Aaron Cresswell. West Ham manager David Moyes is looking to add fresh legs alongside Cresswell at let-back and the Zimbabwe international has been identified as one of the names they could pursue. He could be available for a cut price too with Zemura having his contract at the Vitality Stadium ending at the conclusion of the 2022-23 season unless a new deal is agreed before then. If they are unable to come to an agreement, the door could open for West Ham to swoop in and make their next summer purchase with the opening English Premier League game against Manchester City fast approaching. This will be an incredibly smart bit of business by the Hammers if they can get a deal over the line in plenty of time before the new season. Zemura’s attacking intent was a major weapon for Parker and Bournemouth last season and that is the kind of player Moyes needs as he is likely to have Said Benrahma or Manuel Lanzini play on the left flank ahead of him. Their natural desire to drift inside should open up the corridor on their outside for the Zimbabwean to charge to the byline and create chaos for opposition defences. ‘’We have to remember who we are playing in the first game of the season, should he arrive by then, and not expect him to be at his absolute best when he makes his Premier League debut against the reigning champions. ‘’Patience will be required but so is a new left-back to challenge the 32-year-old Cresswell who won’t be at his highest level for too much longer,’’ West Ham Zone commented yesterday. — Yahoo Sport.