The Herald LAGOS. – Superstar singer, Damini Ogulu, popularly known as Burna Boy, has said that his style of music is called Afrofusion and, therefore, cannot be labelled as Afrobeats. The “Last Last” crooner stated that all genres of music from Africa should not be labelled as Afrobeats, adding that there were diverse sounds from the continent. Burna Boy made this assertion in an interview with the hosts of the Million Dollar Worth of Game podcast, which was aired on Sunday. According to Burna Boy, the generalisation of music as Afrobeats was unfair to African artistes. “For me, it’s like the same way you’re going to say Nas is an R&B singer because he’s from America or Whitney Houston was a rapper because rap is the most popping thing now,” he said. He added, “I can’t accept that because I’m not a rapper. So now in Africa when you talk about music, the first thing they say is Afrobeats. Afrobeat is a legend called Fela Kuti. “Years went by and Nigerian musicians started dropping music that was becoming something. So they needed to call it something to be able to identify with it. “Somehow they just said Afrobeats and added an s. I don’t know what sense that made but that’s what happened. Somewhere along the line, all the music that comes from Africa just writes Afrobeats. “We have Highlife, Juju music, Fuji music, South African Kwaeto music, Amapiano, Afropop, we have all types of genres in Africa. “To be really sincere, for you to just call everything Afrobeats kind of does a disservice to the artistes. “For me, when I started the Afrofusion thing, it was like my music was not the same with anything that was out. It was like everybody else kind of sounded the same.” Revealing how he wanted something he could identify himself with, he said, “It was one kind of move and for me, there was nothing I could identify myself with. So I just decided that I’ll call it Afrofusion because it’s a fusion of everything. “The Afro-Africaness is the thing that covers it, it’s the bottle that holds the whole drink. “That is why I always make sure that everybody knows this is what I do, it’s Afrofusion.” — punchng.com.