The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter FOR many, playing pool is associated with the pub and alcoholism, but for Tariro Vhondo it is a hobby that has seen her rise to become one of the country’s top players and an administrator for Harare Province Pool Association and is even bringing her food on the table. Born in Harare, the top female player is the one to look out for at today’s Carling Black Label National Pool Finals at Reserve Bank Sports Club in Harare. Cutting her Health Studies in Cyprus when her father passed on, the mother of two is determined to reach great heights. After finishing third at the 2019 finals held in Harare, Vhondo’s rise to be one of the most feared female pool players in this country came by chance as she took the sport as a pastime in Westlea. “I started learning pool in 2008 when I joined Flora Pool Club in Westlea as a hobby but I have since managed to represent the country. “I would like to acknowledge my first captain Privilege Gowero, chairman George Kanyama and Harrison Mawoneke who taught me the basics and groomed me. The sport is growing so much and I am happy that many women are taking it seriously. “It was my friend, Mellisa Nkhoma, who introduced me to the sport and I have managed to be part of the national team that travelled to Uganda in 2016 and brought home a bronze medal,” she said. Vhondo has grown in the sport and has since assumed several roles in provincial and national association set-up. “As I learnt more about the sport, I got equally interested in the administrative aspects of the sport and became secretary of Western Pool League which was formed to covering the western areas of Harare. Because of the potential I showed, I am currently the secretary-general for Harare Women’s Pool Association (HAPWA) and Zimbabwe Women’s Pool Association (ZWPA) respectively. ‘’Whilst in Cyprus for two years in 2017, I did not abandon the sport as I took part in the snooker championship 2017 which was organised by the student union,” added Vhondo. Vhondo has challenged women to take up the sport and hopes it becomes a sport recognised even in schools.