The Herald BERLIN. — A sports reporter covering Bayern Munich for Germany’s biggest newspaper BILD has been taken off of their coverage of the German Bundesliga football club after discovering she is in a relationship with manager Julian Nagelsmann. As announced by the German publication themselves, they have released Lena Wurzenberger from reporting on the club ‘’with immediate effect’’ following the discovery. It comes after they reported earlier this month that Nagelsmann had split up with his wife Verena after 15 years together. Another German outlet, Sport1, reported that a photo was seen which showed Nagelsmann and his new partner together on vacation — on a yacht off Ibiza. Wurzenberger has been forced to give up her position covering Bayern to avoid any conflict of interest between her private and professional life. The 30-year-old previously reported on Werder Bremen before moving to Munich where she has been covering the Bundesliga champions for the past two years. It’s said Nagelsmann is keen to keep their relationship private, as she is well known among Bayern players from her ‘’countless interviews’’ with them. For a recent edition of BILD, she interviewed star signing Sadio Mane following his £35million move from Liverpool. Nagelsmann, who turns 35 next month, has two children with Verena, a son and a daughter, and they have been married since 2018. It’s said that his relationship with Wurzenberger “is serious’’ and that Bayern Munich were also informed about the duo pairing up. After his holiday in Ibiza, Nagelsmann will be gearing the reigning Bundesliga champions up for the new season, which gets underway on August 5, against Europa League winners Eintracht Frankfurt. A big issue ahead of the new season is resolving the transfer saga involving star striker Robert Lewandowski. The Polish striker is keen for a change after eight seasons in Munich, and he is hopeful of completing a signing to Spanish giants Barcelona by the end of the transfer window. — Mailonline.