The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S Gems are set to get down to business today when they resume preparations for the upcoming Netball World Cup qualifiers due to take place next month in Pretoria, South Africa. The Gems technical team named an 18-member squad for the camp expected to run until July 31. The team started trooping into camp on Sunday at Girls High School and by yesterday afternoon most of the players had reported for camp. Team manager, Agnes Chiroodza, said the remaining players, including the pair of Yeukai Chamba and Thandekile Nyoni, who are both based in South Africa, are expected to arrive today. “Elizabeth Mushore is writing an exam today, so she will report for camp tomorrow (today). “Lizzie (Kanyekwere) was attending a funeral but she will report for camp this evening,” said Chiroodza. Gems captain, Felisitus Kwangwa, who is back home following the end of the Vitality Netball Superleague 2022 season, is expected to join camp this week. The Gems captain had a fruitful season at her English club, Surrey Storm, where she established herself as one of the key players and had more game-time this time around compared to last year when she was making her debut appearance in the Vitality Netball Superleague. Kwangwa’s presence is a boost to the national team as she is expected to lead the side at the qualifiers. Sharon Bwanali, who missed the team’s trip to Malawi for the Confederation of Southern Africa Netball Associations (COSANA) Tri-Nations Cup due to an injury, is back in the squad as well as Nobukhosi Ndlovu, who plays centre. Squad Sharon Bwanali (ZDF Queens), Tafadzwa Matura (ZDF Queens), Claris Kwaramba (Platinum Queens), Priscilla Ndlovu (Platinum Queens), Sharleen Makusha (Platinum Queens), Chipo Shoko (Platinum Queens), Progress Moyo (Platinum Queens), Lizzie Kanyekwere (Ngezi Platinum), Taslima Mdimba (Ngezi Platinum), Tafadzwa Mawango (Correctional) Felisitus Kwangwa (Surrey Storm, England) Nobukhosi Ndhlovu (Goldreef), Ursula Ndlovu (Glow Petroleum) Prudence Sibanda (Glow Petroleum), Yeukai Chamba (Tonadoes, South Africa) Thandekile Smiley Nyoni (JCNC, South Africa), Nicole Muzanenamo (Greenfuel), Elizabeth Mushore (Platinum Queens). 