The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter TRIATHLON Zimbabwe have revealed that the National Duathlon Championships that were held at Donnybrook Race Track over the weekend will be an annual event. The weekend’s competition was the inaugural national event staged by the national association. Participants took part in different age groups — 20 and over, juniors (16 to 19), racing over the sprint distance and youth (12 to 15). The sprint was made up of a 5km run, 20km bike and 2.5km run while the super-sprint consisted of a 2.5km run, 10km bike and 1.25km run. Anje Van As was crowned champion in the Youth Girls. Rachel O’Donoghue and Nicole Madya were second and third respectively. The Youth Boys title went to Rohnan Nicholson while Callum Smith came second and Israel Mahumbe settled for third place. George Ascott came first in the Junior Men. He was followed by Duwan Botha with Tavanashe Ndemera settling for third place. The Junior Women category went to Jessica Fuller. Brooklyn Tippett and Emma Lidsba were second and third respectively. Laura O’Donoghue claimed the Age Group Women title ahead of Greer Wynn and Andie Kuipers. In the men’s section, Nkulumo Dube emerged the winner while Amos Chakaza claimed the second spot, followed by Solomon Mugavazi to complete the top three. Triathlon Zimbabwe president, David Ellis, said the event will now be a permanent feature on their calendar. “We had an excellent turnout although it was an extremely cold day which we thought might deter participation. “We had races for all other non-championship categories across the board and this was encouraging to see. Obviously, athletes from the cycling community dominated the bike section of the races and competition was fierce from all athletes. “As an annual event this actual race will be a permanent fixture on our calendar. The title sponsor has committed to at least three years. “In terms of more such competitions we will meet this week to set the calendar for the season and the inclusion of more duathlon competitions will be a key issue to be addressed,” said Ellis. The national event was sponsored by Evolution Insurance. Lidsba, Tippett, Ascott, Nicholson, Smith, Madya and Van As are scheduled to represent the country at the Africa Triathlon Championships in September, in Morocco and the duathlon competition was part of their preparations. “This type of competition is crucial especially for the athletes travelling to Morocco in September to give continuity in their preparations as the season starts in September, and although we have planned to commence earlier than in previous years it will not allow sufficient time to prepare,” Ellis said. The Triathlon Zimbabwe president noted that their wish is to make the sport accessible to more people. “We aim to make the sport accessible to a greater number of competitors and getting the chance to continue competing during the winter months,” said Ellis. Duathlon consist of running and cycling.