The Herald BANGKOK. — Jurgen Klopp has spoken of his optimism for the new football season and insisted Liverpool supporters “don’t have to be worried”. The Reds are currently in Bangkok, Thailand, as part of their pre-season tour ahead of the upcoming English Premier League campaign. Liverpool were pipped to the title by Manchester City last season before seeing star Sadio Mane leave the club for Bayern Munich, breaking up the formidable strike force he formed with Mohamed Salah and Roberto Firmino. But a club-record £85m fee brought in Darwin Nunez as Mane’s replacement, while Salah has been secured for another three years and Fabio Carvalho and Calvin Ramsay have also arrived as Liverpool transition to a new era. “We know how good Sadio is, we will realise how good he was for us in moments because there were just “Sadio moments” when no one else can do it like him,” Klopp exclusively told Sky Sports News. “That’s not a bad thing because two years ago Diogo Jota came in and Diogo did amazing stuff for us. Bobby Firmino had probably not the season we all expected because of injuries but in training Bobby is back, 100 per cent. He’s a world class player. “You don’t have to be worried when you think about us or you can be excited about what’s possible for us. We cannot do the same thing year-in, year-out, it’s just not possible. We have a base, we have to build on this base and be more unpredictable for other teams and that’s possible with bringing in other players because they have a different skillset.” Klopp is not expecting any further player incomings this summer, while Neco Williams has joined Mane in leaving Anfield after his move to Nottingham Forest was confirmed. And the German has answers for the key questions facing him ahead of the new season. “How can you keep going? How can you improve a world class football team?” he said. “It’s by training, obviously — we believe in that a lot — but as well in bringing new players in. We need fresh blood, a new dynamic, fresh desire to create a team full of excitement and determination for the things coming. “Sometimes you do it exactly like you want and sometimes you have to react on a situation like when Sadio told us that he wants to move on. We have to replace him, he’s a pretty good player.  — Sky Sports