The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter FIRED Black Rhinos coach Herbert “Jompano” Maruwa has dodged responding to allegations that he had become a nuisance at the army side following his unceremonious ouster on Wednesday. Instead, he has heaped praise on the Castle Lager Premiership football club that has been so patient with him and afforded him five years at the helm despite failing to win anything for the two-time league champions. Maruwa had become one of the most controversial figures in the domestic Premiership for his pre-match antics anchored on allegations of using “juju”. And at times, including in his team’s reverse fixture against Dynamos at the National Sports Stadium, he would be involved in physical confrontations with the opposition. And that has been tainting the image of Black Rhinos whose ethos are anchored on discipline and fair play. Maruwa had also become “big-headed’’ to ignore calls by his superiors, according to a statement released by club secretary general, Edward Mutukwa, on Wednesday. “The (Black Rhinos) Executive Committee, guided by the Black Rhinos Football Club’s Constitution, Article 10 (c), unanimously agreed to terminate the services of Herbert Maruwa as the Head Coach. The decision was informed by the following reasons; “Unbecoming behaviour during match days which has tainted the corporate image of the club and the organisation at large. Cases in point include the club’s matches against Dynamos FC, Manica Diamonds FC, Ngezi Platinum FC and recently Triangle FC. This was also in contravention of the Premier Soccer League’s regulations. “Failure to respect and accept advice and support from other technical department members thereby negatively affecting unity within the club,” said Mutukwa. “Disregard of authority by failing to attend meetings called for, showing disobedience to the Executive Committee, for reasons best known to himself. “The club appreciates the good work that he has done in order to produce the much-needed results during the five (5)-year tenure he has served the institution. Nevertheless, the above stated decision was arrived at with the view to salvage the club’s lost brand image in the football arena. We reiterate that the Chauya Chipembere corporate image needs to be safeguarded in order to attract as much corporate partners as possible. The club wishes him a successful career in his future endeavours.” But the youthful coach Maruwa could not be drawn to comment on the plethora of accusations levelled against him, instead he opted to hail the army side. “I am happy Black Rhinos gave me the opportunity to coach the team and also to upgrade my CV. It’s not easy to be at the team for almost five years. “I am happy for what we achieved as a team and also as a coach. The team has been competing and right now I am leaving the team in a good position, they can actually fight for honours. I wish them well,” he said. “I believe in preparing my team at training and those who saw Black Rhinos playing can confirm the team was playing well and the results can tell it was through hard work.” Maruwa, who joined Black Rhinos at the beginning of 2018 after a coaching stint in Eswatini, becomes the second coach to be shown the exit door in the Premier Soccer League this week following the firing of Benjani Mwaruwari by Ngezi Platinum on Monday. Tenax coach Shadreck Mugurasave was also reported to be facing the same fate. 