The Herald Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Women cricket team have embarked on a training camp in India as part of their preparations for the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup Qualifier 2022 to be held in the United Arab Emirates in September. The team arrived in Bengaluru on Tuesday with a squad of 16 players, led by the captain Mary-Anne Musonda. After accepting an invitation to tour from the Omtex ICWC Cricket Institute, Zimbabwe Women will be in India for 18 days during which they will play five Twenty20 (T20) games against local sides. They will start off with a clash against the Karnataka State Women’s Select side today. Zimbabwe Women will be in action again tomorrow, while the rest of the T20 matches are pencilled in for next Monday, Wednesday and Thursday. All the matches will be played at the NICE Cricket Arena in Bengaluru. After the T20 games, the Zimbabweans will also be involved in three one-day matches against the locals. Zimbabwe Women are using the training camp in India as part of their preparations for the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup Qualifier 2022 to be held in the United Arab Emirates in September. Meanwhile, wicketkeeper Modester Mupachikwa is set to begin a new adventure in the United Kingdom after she joined her teammates at Spencer Cricket Club this week. Mupachikwa left for England on Monday evening. The club expressed delight with the arrival of the 25-year-old wicketkeeper/batter. “It’s an absolute pleasure to welcome Modester — everyone is so excited to meet her and we wish her every success during our time with us,” said Spencer Cricket Club on Twitter. Mupachikwa becomes the second Zimbabwean women cricketer to secure opportunities in the European country, after national team vice-captain Josephine Nkomo. Nkomo left for South North Cricket Club in England last month. Both Mupachikwa and Nkomo are expected to play a part when Zimbabwe take part in the 2022 ICC Women’s T20 World Cup Qualifier to be held in United Arab Emirates this September. Mupachikwa, who made her national team debut at the age of 14 years, is one of the experienced players in the current Zimbabwe senior women’s cricket team. She also featured when Zimbabwe made their ODI debut last year against Ireland and has eight WODI caps under the belt to date. Mupachikwa has played 28 WT20I for Zimbabwe and scored 621 runs at an average of 29.57. Zimbabwe Women squad in India: Chatonzwa Christabel, Chipare Francisca, Dhururu Chiyedza, Gwanzura Nyasha, Mavunga Michelle, Marange Precious, Mayers Sharne, Mazvishaya Audrey, Mbofana Esther, Mugeri-Tiripano Chipo, Mujaji Pellagia, Musonda Mary-Anne (captain), Ndhlovu Kelis, Phiri Loryn, Sibanda Nomvelo, Tshuma Loreen