The Herald Tapiwa Bepe In this week’s section of profiling the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange (ZSE) retail investors, we feature Clever Mpofu. Age: 60 years Profession: Banker Qualification: Masters in Business Administration degree Hobbies: Martial arts under the wing of Sensei Baron Ndiripo Aspirations: To become a millionaire in US dollar terms. The Investment Journey Through reading the Herald,  Clever began following the daily prices of shares with the hope that one day in the not so distant future he would also invest on the ZSE. At that time, investing on the ZSE seemed to be a preserve for the rich and famous and he had concluded that this was way out of his league but he remained fascinated and followed the prices on a daily basis. What made this even more complicated at the time was that one had to visit a stockbroker to invest on the ZSE. That alone was very intimidating. By chance, Clever then met someone who demystified investing on the ZSE. He was informed that anyone can invest on the ZSE. He then visited a stockbroker and because he had a small amount he enquired about the small companies, referred to as penny stocks. He managed to purchase  a few shares but the feeling of being a part owner of the listed companies was great. Whilst the purchase may have been just for a few dollars it demonstrated that anyone out there can buy shares on the ZSE. Clever did not have much money but he managed to become a shareholder of a listed company overnight. Around 2016, Clever made a decision that from his salary he would pick up a few shares every month. At the time the minimum shares one would buy was 100 shares per counter. This meant that in some months he could not afford to buy the shares. The situation has changed for the better as one can now buy shares from as low as $500 through ZSE Direct. The Investment Strategy Clever does not believe in the profit and loss and balance sheet analysis. As a simple man, he does not analyse the ratios first before buying shares. He just scans the situation on the ground and decides what to buy. For example, when Clever enters a supermarket, he has noticed that a sizable amount of products are from the listed companies, so when he sees people buying these products, he is reassured of the future existence of the companies and accumulates the shares bit by bit. The advice from a lot of seasoned investors is that one must focus on a few quality counters. Clever has done the unthinkable and the opposite. He has purchased 43 counters out of the counters listed on the ZSE. His strategy is to have a minimum of 10 000 shares of each counter. This is his way of creating his own index fund. This means he has a mixture of the heavy counters, middle tier and penny stocks consisting of the Financials, Consumer Staples, Consumer Discretionary, ICT sector and Exchange Traded Funds. Highlights and low It was not easy in the beginning for Clever because of limited resources and the requirements at the time which have since been relaxed to cater for everyone. With the introduction of ZSE Direct one can buy and sell shares online, and this has been the best thing that ever happened to him. It has given Clever the freedom to purchase and sell shares when-ever and where-ever. The biggest freedom is the fact that he can even buy shares for $500 without feeling embarrassed. The four developments that have made Clever proud of his decision to start the journey of investing on the ZSE include; Advice to Prospective Investors Information provided in this article is for educational purposes and does not constitute financial advice. You should obtain independent advice from a registered stockbroker or financial advisor before making any financial decisions. For more information about how to invest on the ZSE, visit the ZSE training portal www.zsetraining.co.zw, email info@zse.co.zw, Tel: +263 24 2886830-5 