The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter NGEZI Platinum coach Benjani Mwaruwari has admitted he could be forced to look for further reinforcements in his defence following a shaky showing by the department in recent Castle Lager Premiership football matches. The former Warriors skipper is under increasing pressure after an underwhelming performance by his charges who have picked just two points from their last three matches. The Mhondoro miners’ lack of concentration, especially at the back, was brutally exposed when they allowed CAPS United to come from behind twice in their 2-2 draw at Baobab on Saturday. Ngezi Platinum were coming from a 3-0 humbling by Herentals the previous weekend and Mwaruwari is a concerned man. “Of late, we have not been conceding goals but we have a new worry. We have been scoring goals and we continue to score them often but we are now worried because we are conceding just too many goals,” said Mwaruwari. “My defence has been one of the most solid in the league because of its ability to shut out opponents. “We have been one of the best in that regard and our problem at times has been our inability to score goals. “But, now we should work on addressing this problem so that we improve again as we go forward.” Mwaruwari has stuck with his back four of right-back Ariel Makopa, left-back Marlvin Kwinjo while Polite Moyo and Kudzai Chigwida form the central defence partnership since the resumption of the second half of the season. But that defence has shipped in five goals in four matches prompting the gaffer to raise concerns. But with former Warriors star Danny “Deco” Phiri reportedly on the verge of penning a deal with the team, Mwaruwari can still do without signing any new player. He has been deploying one of the best central defenders in the country Carlos Mavhurume in central midfield to fill the hole created following Marlon Mushonga’s injury. But, Phiri is a proven marshal in that role and Mavhurume can revert back to defence giving Mwaruwari the balance that he desperately needs in that department right now. Another defender Derrick Bonna has been sitting out since he was de-registered in March but Mwaruwari has hinted he could have him re-registered before the current mid-season transfer window closes. Bonna, who arrived at the Mhondoro side late last year during the Chibuku Super Cup tournament, can play all the defensive positions, including shielding the central defenders. Another prospect, Tapiwa Sibanda, who arrived at Ngezi Platinum early this year amid high expectations given his scintillating form at his previous club Cranborne Bullets, can also give Mwaruwari some options at the back. Meanwhile, captain Qadr Amini could be back for Ngezi’s next match against Yadah at the National Sports Stadium on Saturday. Amini has missed the last four encounters as he has been battling a groin injury. But the Warriors defender has fully recovered and is expected to start training this week and he may make the match-day squad for the weekend.