The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter FORMER champions Chicken Inn are vigorously pursuing ex-Warriors midfielder Tafadzwa Kutinyu to bolster their team as domestic topflight clubs make the last minute rush to beat the Castle Lager Premiership football mid-season transfer deadline. The Gamecocks, who have since brought back striker Clive Augusto and signed Vincent Moyo from Bulawayo City, are one of the clubs that need to beat Sunday’s deadline. There are approximately less than 72 hours remaining before the close of the transfer window. Kutinyu has also been linked with giants CAPS United after training with the Green Machine last week but the Gamecocks now appear a more credible destination for a perfect reunion with Joey Antipas. “We have signed two players — Moyo and Augusto — and we are now targeting the third. Of course we are pursuing Kutinyu and the negotiations should be complete any time from now,” said Antipas. The midfielder won the championship with Chicken Inn in 2015 before pursuing greener pastures in West and East Africa. He has played for Singida United, Azam FC and Diamond Trust Bank in Tanzania and Guinea’s perennial Champions League campaigners, Horoya FC before returning home. Giants Dynamos and Highlanders have been ominously quiet since the window opened four weeks ago but they have not ruled out the possibility of late shopping. CAPS United managed to bring back midfielder Blessing Sarupinda from South Africa, Pawell Govere from Chicken Inn and ex-Dynamos and Harare City winger Emmanuel Mandiranga. The club’s chief executive officer Charlie Jones told The Herald that Makepekepe were looking to add two more midfielders to their arsenal. The Harare giants have had a poor outing this season, with misfortunes stalking them on and off the pitch. They have been terribly short in playing personnel, a situation which was worsened by the sacking of four senior players — Ronald Chitiyo, Clive Augusto, Dennis Dauda and Simba Chinani — earlier in the season for leading a mutiny. The club also lost one of their key players Tatenda Tavengwa who moved to South Africa after spending less than five months at the Green Machine. As of yesterday giants Dynamos, who have been hunting for a striker, were yet to make transfer business. Their coach Tonderai Ndiraya indicated he was looking for an effective forward to complement his misfiring strike-force. But it appears his efforts are coming to nought, as the transfer deadline inches closer. The Glamour Boys chairman Isaiah Mupfurutsa yesterday said they were still open for business if the coach proposes. “As you may be aware, we were very active on the market during the pre-season and again last year before football was suspended by Covid-19. “We are confident of the squad that we have and as management we can only act on the request of the technical team. So far they haven’t made any requests to sign or de-register a player. “And, as far as we are concerned, all our slots are filled up. We are quite aware the transfer window is about to close and if the coach decides to take action we can still consider that,” said Mupfurutsa. Three-time champions FC Platinum have also been inactive. Army side Black Rhinos yesterday indicated they were in race against time for the signature of veteran forward Tinei Chitora, currently at Whawha. They have beefed up their squad with the arrival of Everson Feremba from sister club Cranborne Bullets, Dennis Dauda and ex-Harare City defender Steady Mudzengerere. Herentals, who have had a decent season, took on board defender Collin Mujuru to bolster their defence ahead of the remainder of the season and the upcoming Chibuku Super Cup. Lowveld side Triangle raided CAPS United for midfielder Enock Karembo, Tinotenda Mutyambizi from Yadah and unheralded Matthew Hlabati from Ruwa. ZPC Kariba, who are currently embroiled in the fight for survival, have secured Wellington Taderera from Ngezi Platinum Stars and could be angling for more signings before the deadline day. Fixtures Saturday: ZPC Kariba v Chicken Inn (Nyamhunga, 1pm), Harare City v FC Platinum (NSS), Black Rhinos v Cranborne Bullets (Vengere), Bulawayo City v Herentals (Barbourfields), Whawha v CAPS Utd (Ascot) Sunday: Ngezi Platinum Stars v Triangle (Baobab), Manica Diamonds v Yadah (Vengere), Highlanders v Tenax (Barbourfields), Dynamos v Bulawayo Chiefs (NSS)