The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter PEARSON Nyasha and Someya Mlauzi were crowned the 2022 Carling Black Label National Pool champions at the Reserve Bank Sports Club on Saturday. Nyasha, who plays at Club 75 and is under Black Rhinos, managed to beat Munashe Dombojena 5-3 to win the $700 000 and pool table first prize in the men’s section. Chitungwiza-based Nyasha was happy with the win and said he will continue to practice and thanked Delta Beverages for the staging of this exciting tournament. “I am very happy with this win and I would like to thank everyone who was behind me. The tournament was tough and I managed to get through to the finals against Dombojena who is an experienced player. “The conditions gave me confidence and I am now looking forward to next week’s Nepaz Tournament to be played in Ruwa. There is a lot of talent and I thank Delta Beverages, through their Carling Black Label brand, for sponsoring such a huge tournament,” said Nyasha. For his second place finish Dombojena walked away $350 000 richer while third-placed player Hillary Mukumure pocketed $200 000. Steven Mazuve went home $100 000 richer for coming fourth. The women’s title was won by Mlauzi who hails from Kwekwe and she was also happy with the win and will look forward to playing in more tournaments. “We are Midlands and we are winners. I am very happy for the win and I thank everyone who has been behind me. Playing against Edith Maunganidze was not easy but I managed to contain my composure and won. It was difficult to come out tops but I perfected my game since the provincials,” said Mlauzi. Erica Manyangadze came third ahead of Angeline Muzopambwa was fourth. The Carling Black Label National Pool Tournament returned to the scene this year in June after a long absence brought about by the Covid -19 pandemic. Delta Beverages marketing manager, Patricia Murambinda, said they are happy that the sport is growing. “We have seen this Carling Black Label property growing in popularity as the sport resonates and is a passion point of many of our consumers. This year they have rallied behind the brand they love to drive an amazing participation rate which is 58% above the prior tournament. “The Carling Black Label Pool tournament has been running under the sponsorship of Delta Beverages for over 10 years in conjunction with the Zimbabwe Pool Association (ZIPA) and we seek to keep the property alive as it gives us opportunities to engage with our consumes and reward all champions for their daily effort,” she said.