The Herald Talent Chimutambgi Arts Reporter Renowned gospel musician Rospina Patai, affectionately known as Mai Patai, has bounced back with a new album titled “Watch and Pray”. Mai Patai, who is wife to ‘Mazambara’ hit maker Pastor Ephraim Patai, will be launching the six-track album, with various seasoned gospel artiste lined up to grace the occasion on Saturday at Christ Unveiling Centre in Harare. Addressing journalists at a press briefing in the capital yesterday, the Gweru-based singer said she had come back with a unique touch in her music after years of deafening silence. She believed the new album is the best of all the three previous albums she recorded. “The album teaches the people to be patient and focus on the Lord as people are now living in the last days. “The songs are so encouraging to believers, that no matter what they are going through, people should not be discouraged since the world is on the brink of an overwhelming crisis leading to the Second Coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. “I was driven by the word of God and the prophetic message from the Holy Spirit, they inspired me to come up with this album. God, in Matthew 24, always reminds us that Jesus is coming, so watching and praying is a reminder to the nation. “The launch will be held on the 30th of this month at Christ Unveiling Centre in the Central Business District. I’m now taking music seriously. Various seasoned artistes are expected to grace the occasion and they include Bethany Pasinawako Ngolomi, Jose Sax, Jonah Chivasa, Chipo Muchegwa, Pastor Elizabeth Chinouriri Ankomah and Natsai Moyo.” Mai Patai’s previous albums are titled: “Makanaka’” “Samulena” and “Punish the Devil’” The tracks on the latest album are “Ndinonyengetera”, “Settle My Matter”, “Musandisiye”, “Handikundikane”, “Mwanakomana” and “Chii Chandingatye.” “It is time to win souls for Jesus by any means,” said Mai Patai. “Christ is coming back and we should win as many souls as possible before his return. I am trying to touch souls through music. “I also believe that in the face of any challenge, victory is in the Lord. It is by the grace of God that we have received Jesus Christ as our Lord and saviour. We are living in the days which are marred by unusual catastrophes, so we need to watch and pray.” Mai Patai entered into the mainstream music industry as a backing vocalist of her husband Pastor Patai and later in 2008 she developed through his support to become an independent singer. She said her husband helped her to realise her potential as he wanted her to be a well determined woman who could not be limited by gender. “I started as a backing vocalist for my husband Pastor Patai and at times I would lead in some songs. Through his guidance and desire for female artistes to dominate the industry, I succeeded.” Mai Patai’s spokesperson, Pastor Jefferson Maserera, thanked the corporates that made the project possible. “I would like to thank all corporates that have made the production of the album a possibility,” he said. “These include Eat and Lick, which is the main sponsor, Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council, Global Investments, Psmith, Zimsky Media and Alion Jefferson Events.”