The Herald Victor Maphosa recently in WEDZA Construction of new Government offices in Wedza, Mashonaland East Province, are 95 percent complete as the Second Republic works around the clock to ensure people access all Government services under one roof. The complex will accommodate all Government departments at district level, who had their offices scattered at Wedza Centre. The construction of the complex started in 2004 but stalled due to a range of challenges. It only took the coming of the Second Republic for construction of the complex to be expedited, and in a space of two years, the project is now almost complete. Besides the new complex, Government is also building the District Civil Registry Offices in Wedza, with the structure also 95 percent complete. The developments have been welcomed by people in Wedza district, who have been travelling to Harare or Marondera to apply for passports and other equally important documents. Wedza residents will also soon be able to access services such as e-passports from their area, as the Second Republic led by President Mnangagwa continues to take services near the people. Mr Michael Chipangaushe of Ward 15, Hwedza Centre, commended the Government for completing the complex. “I was born here in Wedza and I am happy to see development coming to our district. Soon we will be obtaining passports here. Days of travelling to Harare or Marondera for passports will be over and we thank President Mnangagwa for this. People from Wedza sometimes spend hours in long queues and some of them are coming back empty-handed. “Now the offices will be near us and we will not be forking out a lot of money travelling up and down for these important documents. This is real development and we want to commend Government for this,” said Mr Chipangaushe. Another Wedza resident, Ms Shenje, said: “I thank Government for the passport offices as well as other Government offices here in Wedza, which are under construction. We appeal to the authorities to continue bringing development to our district and uplift our lives.” Mrs Loice Matunga, also of Wedza applauded Government for fulfilling the promise of bringing services closer to the people. “We are happy for this. We welcome development in our community and what Government is doing makes us happy. All these developments create employment for our children. Once again we thank Government for all this,” she said. Another resident, who identified himself only as Mr Machivenyika, said the development was welcome and showed that Government was committed to bringing services closer to the people. “Building these offices here in Wedza is commendable. Now we will be accessing services closer to us. A lot of people will obtain passports here, which is an advantage to us. “So we welcome this development and to Government, we say continue developing our district and the country as a whole,” he said. Besides Wedza, the Government is also constructing similar offices in Goromonzi and Mutoko, as it works to bring services closer to people. Recently, President Mnangagwa commissioned the Murewa Registry Offices, which also offer e-passport services. The offices are located at Murewa Centre.