The Herald Tadious Manyepo in CHIVHU ZIMBABWE National Boxing and Wrestling Control Board chief executive officer, Lawrence Zimbudzana, has challenged promoters to decentralise boxing to give more talented fighters a chance to showcase themselves. He said the country could be losing raw talent due to lack of exposure as the sport is mostly concentrated in Harare and Bulawayo. Zimbudzana said this while hailing the Charles Manyuchi Boxing Academy at the launch of a tournament dubbed “Inauguration of Kings” which will be held at the Phil-Jen Country Lodges in Chivhu on August 6. The contest will feature two international title fights with highly-rated Tatenda “Signature” Biningu taking on Zambia’s Philimon Hara for the unified WBF and WABA super-bantamweight belts in the main bout. On the other hand, Evans “Vanzo” Usavihwevhu will take on Yohane Banda of Malawi for the WBF lightweight title. The tournament has been endorsed by several corporates who have poured in financial and non-financial resources. “We are working on putting structures across the country so that we decentralise the sport of boxing in this country. If you look at our previous tournaments, they have mainly been concentrated in Harare where, for example, a fighter in Binga can find it very difficult to travel,” said Zimbudzana. “So we are challenging promoters to consider spreading tournaments across the country. “We would also like to salute the corporate world for their continued support of the sport. “As the board, we are working hard in the background to ensure that the game is brought to all parts of the country and this initiative by the Charles Manyuchi Boxing Academy to bring this tournament in Chivhu is obviously a welcome move. After the lengthy Covid-19 disturbances, we are happy that the game is now back in full throttle and our hosting of the WBC and ABU seminars will further strengthen our standing towards achieving what we want to attain in the long run.” Promoter of the fighter, Prosper Chibaya, who is also the Charles Manyuchi Boxing Academy director, said all is set for the tournament. The academy is hosting their first tournament after exactly one year after their last event at the Flamboyant Hotel in Masvingo when Charles Manyuchi successfully defended his WBF middleweight title on July 3 last year. “We are happy to be back again as the Charles Manyuchi Boxing Academy hosting this tournament. It is a high-stakes contest and we are very excited to be bringing this event to Chivhu,” said Chibaya. “Everything is now in place and we are ready to go. We have brought in a regional flavour and we will be hosting fighters from Malawi and Zambia. “Some of our local boxers had gone for over two years without getting any fights. But we are very sure they have been training since this is their career, their livelihood. “We would also like to thank the Zimbabwe National Boxing and Wrestling Control Board, our sponsors and the Government for all the support they are giving us.”