The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter THE Castle Lager Premiership race took an interesting twist at the weekend after defending champions FC Platinum seized control of the race following their top-of-the-table victory over Chicken Inn. The in-form platinum miners continued with their dominant run with a massive 3-0 away win over the Gamecocks at Luveve. The two teams swapped places at the top of the table following Saturday’s result. The win ended Chicken Inn’s reign at the top, which had stretched for a couple of weeks. Going into the game, FC Platinum trailed the Gamecocks by a point on the log standings. But a brace by Walter Musona and another fantastic strike from defender Nomore Chinyerere changed the script. The three first half goals were all that the Zvishavane platinum miners needed to secure yet another victory and extend their winning streak to six games on the trot. They have been getting the goals from everywhere. Last week defenders Lawrence Mhlanga and Blessing Moyo secured the 2-0 victory at Tenax. FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza was excited by the win over Chicken Inn. “It was a massive result for us. The guys worked so hard from the first minute to the last. We were in control of everything. “We were playing against a quality team and the result could have gone either way. We have been working hard. We have not been talking too much, but working hard,” Mapeza said after the game. The Zvishavane side have been impressive after winning their last six games without conceding a goal. Mapeza can look back to the last 10 games with pride after his side managed nine wins and lost only once, to Herentals. The goal scored by Herentals in that game was the only one they conceded in the past 10 games. FC Platinum, who experienced mixed fortunes on return from the AFCON break, have now taken their tally to 40 points, two clear of second-placed Chicken Inn. Mapeza, however, has refused to be drawn into the championship matrix at this stage, insisting FC Platinum are focused on running their own race. The platinum miners are currently seized with renewing their side after the club decided to infuse into the team young talents like Panashe Mutimbanyoka, Kelvin Mangiza and Thandolwenkosi Ngwenya, who have since transformed themselves into key pillars, under the project. Chicken Inn coach Joey Antipas said the Gamecocks shoot themselves in the foot by losing at home. “We played against a good side. “We dug our own grave. In the first half those goals could have been prevented. There was too much lapse in concentration and if you make such mistakes as those you get punished. We will try and rectify our mistakes. We were panicky and jittery on the ball,” Antipas said. But the situation was even more disappointing for giants Dynamos who were held to a disappointing home draw by Triangle. The result left the Glamour Boys, on 35 points, five points adrift of FC Platinum. The pressure is beginning to mount for the giants, who last week fell to a deflating 0-1 defeat to Yadah. The supporters on Sunday were getting restless and they vented their anger through protest songs against their coach Tonderai Ndiraya. There are still 15 games to go in the marathon and Ndiraya believes his side can still turn round their fortunes, with more support from all the stakeholders, who include the fans. Dynamos had a dominant second half on Sunday but they could not convert scoring chances. “It’s one of those games but we still have time ahead of us. I understand that we must pick points but we picked a point not satisfactory but we take that point,” said Ndiraya. Dynamos are expected to travel to Sakubva for their next game against Cranborne Bullets. “We look ahead of the next game. We go away to Cranborne and if we are going to perform, fight the same way we did (on Sunday), I’m positive that we can get a result there. “It’s a difficult venue but I still believe that we can really fight. There’s still time, there’s still a long way to go. If we are going to exhibit the spirit that we exhibited against Triangle, I’m fully confident that we can get the result we want,” said Ndiraya.