The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIFA Northern Region Soccer League chairman Martin Kweza is set to continue as the region’s leader until the end of his term. Kweza was recently co-opted into the association’s executive committee following the recalling of former president Felton Kamambo and two executive members Bryton Malandule and Philemon Machana. Harare City Football Club chairman Alois Masepe and former Highlanders chairman Kenneth Mhlophe were also added. There have been calls for Kweza to consider relinquishing his post as the ZIFA Northern Region chairman. However, ZIFA legal advisor Chenaimoyo Gumiro yesterday shed some light on the co-options. “The constitution says the executive committee can co-opt members based on the skills the particular individual(s) possess to add value to the overall administration of the game. “For example, I was co-opted into the executive committee because of my legal background, which is key in decision making. “What the constitution prohibits is that a member of the executive committee cannot be part and parcel of any of the ZIFA judicial bodies. In this case neither Kweza nor any of the co-opted members are members of the judicial bodies. “The constitution is silent on whether he should relinquish his post or not. It then becomes an administrative issue of corporate governance. “But for now we are not sure which portfolio he will handle in the executive committee. It might not even clash with his role as Northern Region chairman. “It’s an issue that hasn’t come up for deliberation yet, maybe it will be discussed at the next meeting. “But I am aware there are regulations that have been crafted by the Electoral Committee which say that during an election period, a candidate seeking to contest for a higher office should relinquish the inferior post he/she might be holding. It’s also something that is still awaiting approval of the Congress,” said Gumiro. Kweza rose to the ZIFA Northern Region Soccer League chairmanship following the death of Willard Manyengavana in 2019. He has continued from where his predecessor left off in transforming the league by adding the Axis Super Eight to the main league that is sponsored by Ruyamuro Service Stations, among other exciting partnerships. “Our league is progressing well. We are happy with the rising levels of competition. The Northern Region has become one of the best leagues in the country. We are going to announce a new sponsorship and a partnership with a radio station in the coming two weeks. “We are already working on the draft contract,” said Kweza. He said he was relishing the appointment into the ZIFA executive committee. “Remember it’s an interim appointment. In terms of the constitution, there is no way that I should be talking of resigning from the Northern Region because the statutes do not say so. “In fact, there is nothing amiss in all this. Let’s take for example the sitting vice-presidents of CAF; they are all member association presidents. These are football matters; the idea is to come up with a competent body that makes sound football policies for the benefit of the game. “That is why we also have a PSL chairman and a women’s football chairperson in the ZIFA board, and yet you will never hear of any conflict of interest. “So I remain the chairperson of the Northern Region Soccer League and also hope to use my skill and expertise for the overall development of the game,” said Kweza.