The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter HARARE giants Dynamos have acknowledged a big task lies ahead of them as they prepare for the top of the table clash against log leaders FC Platinum at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. With the two teams coming from a run of contrasting results, DeMbare coach Tonderai Ndiraya yesterday said they needed to correct mistakes from previous outings where they failed to win in their last three matches. FC Platinum, on the other hand, have been consistent with seven wins on the bounce, and taking control of the Castle Lager Premiership race at the start of the second half of the season. “I don’t know how we can term that game,” said Ndiraya. “But of course it’s a big game in the sense that our opponents have been on a roll and we’ve not really been consistent in terms of getting results.” “But I think this is another game altogether for us. We didn’t do well in our last match. We are back, we are playing at home and would really want to do well. “So it’s a big game which we really want to use to correct our past mistakes. Of course, the question is would you really want to correct your past mistakes against FC Platinum? “The answer would be why not? This is an opportunity for us to correct those mistakes and make sure that we take off and consistently move forward as a team. “So we are looking forward to that match. We’ve been preparing; I must say we’ve been preparing quite well save for a few injuries that we picked along the way during the week. But everything else is in place for us for that game. “So we are looking forward to it. It’s another challenge in the season but we are looking forward to the game,” said Ndiraya. Dynamos have not won in their last three games against Yadah, Triangle and Cranborne Bullets. Recently, they have struggled particularly against the teams in the bottom half of the log table after losing to Yadah and Cranborne Bullets. They were also held to a barren home draw by Triangle during this poor phase. The Harare giants retreated eight points behind log leaders FC Platinum following the 0-1 defeat at the hands of newboys Cranborne Bullets at Vengere last week. Dynamos are third in the race with 35 points, three behind Chicken Inn. FC Platinum consolidated their place when they extended their tally to 43 points following the win at Tenax. This has seen pressure mounting on the Glamour Boys, especially from their fans. “Of course pressure is always there at Dynamos, whether you’re eight points behind or two points behind. I think if you recall the pressure was even there when we were on top of the log. That is our team, that is our institution. “Fortunately most players who are new, we have this season, are beginning to understand those dynamics and are getting to learn along the way what really it is about our team and hopefully they are getting stronger by each passing game. Hopefully we can all put our act together and get a result,” said Ndiraya.