The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe national senior netball team coach Ropafadzo Mutsauki says the ongoing camp will be their final selection platform as the Netball World Cup qualifiers get closer. The Gems are in camp at Girls High School for the qualifiers scheduled for Pretoria, South Africa, from August 20 to 27. The technical team made an addition to the initial squad that had 18 players by bringing in South Africa-based Andile Ndhlovu. Platinum Queens player Lynette Tanhira also joined camp late Tuesday to replace Tafadzwa Mawango, who withdrew from the squad due to a knee injury. “We have worked with Lynette before. We know how she plays and what we need to work on are the areas she lacks that we identified. She has been in camp with the squad before and we went to Namibia with her. “Tafadzwa is injured and we needed someone to replace her. We said the door is still open to the players we have had in camp before and to new players. “We have Andile (Ndhlovu), it’s her first time in the squad. The training may be a bit different for her but by the time we get to the second week in camp we should know how she plays. “This is our final selection camp and then we will have the final camp with the final 12,” said Mutsauki. The camp is expected to run until July 31. The Gems had their first camp in March. They then took part in the Confederation of Southern African Netball Associations Tri-nations Cup in Malawi last month. The technical team has continued to make adjustments to the squad as they seek to come up with a strong side that will be able to challenge for one of the tickets to next year’s World Cup to be hosted by South Africa. “The idea is to get different combinations, everyone gets the opportunity to showcase what they can do. And it creates the much needed competition among the players because everyone has to work hard, which is key for us to select the best players,” said Mutsauki. South Africa-based goal shooter Thandekile Nyoni, who also made the squad, said she is excited by the call-up. She joined camp on Tuesday together with Ndhlovu. “This call up means a lot to me because I have always wanted to play for the national team even though I am based in South Africa. But it’s a very good thing for me and the country and the girls.” Nyoni, who also plays goal attack, is hoping to make the final team for the first time. “I see myself in the top 12 because I am here to work hard. I am here to work with the girls, I am here to listen to the coaches’ instructions, game plan and everything, so hopefully I will make the top 12. “If I make it will be my first cap,” said Nyoni. Nyoni and Ndlovu play for Johannesburg Central Netball Club (JCNC).