The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter DYNAMOS winger Bill Antonio has revealed that he once quit the game after going for years training and playing on bare foot. The 20-year-old left the game for a while and he didn’t want to come back until the man who discovered and recruited him into Dzivarasekwa Academy, Watson Marowa, convinced him to reverse his decision. And with the knowledge of the plight that faces junior football teams, Antonio has taken it upon himself to make sure no players in the grassroots structures will contemplate leaving the game after donating an assortment of kits worth thousands of US dollars to his former academy. The youngster, who is one of the outstanding performers in the league so far this season, said his dream is to make sure every talented footballer gets to fulfil their dreams. The Prince Edward prodigy has since been appointed ambassador of Kit Aid, a charity organisation in Zimbabwe. “You know growing up in the ghetto, playing the game without football boots and sometimes travelling to faraway places on foot are not some of the best things that can make you want to pursue football as a profession,” said Antonio. “I actually had to quit the game as challenges mounted at Dzivarasekwa Academy. It had to take the intervention of the coach (Marowa) who sat me down and told me I was a good player who needed to continue pushing despite the challenges I was facing. “There were so many challenges and it made no sense for me to continue playing football. Challenges facing junior football (in this country) are just too many. This is the reason why I have decided to donate kits to my former academy so I could play my own small role to ensure all young players can pursue their dream without hindrance. “I would like to thank my agent Pat Jefferson who has been mentoring me on how I can grow better into a full professional. I really appreciate the advice she constantly dishes and her heart is on development. So I have decided to support my former club in every way possible. “If my standard of living improves, I will also improve my standard of giving to the youngsters with what they need to become professional footballers like me. So with God leading me all the way, I will surely do that. I believe in giving back to the community, it means a lot to me.” Marowa hailed Antonio for his gesture. “Bill is the first player whom this academy has nurtured who has come back with a helping hand. He is indeed a good example. We really appreciate this gesture. We have received kits for Under-10s, Under-12s and Under-14s together with travelling gear, balls, training cones and agility ladders . . . We are really grateful,” said Marowa. “Like he said, Bill faced a lot of challenges growing up. He hardly had decent football boots and he actually once quit the game. “I am the one who discovered this boy. He was playing a plastic ball in the street and I took my time without him noticing as he displayed some amazing skills. I invited him to come to the academy and the rest is history.” Dzivarasekwa Academy is growing in its status, having developed such players like the FC Platinum duo of left-back Kelvin Mangiza and forward Donald Teguru, Black Rhinos’ Keith Madera, Leslie Kashitigu of Ngezi Platinum as well as Kudzakwashe Chidonza and Elisha Nechiturike of Cranborne Bullets, among other high-profile players. Antonio is trying to rediscover himself since coming back into the fold in Dynamos’ 0-1 defeat to Yadah last week following a two-match suspension, having received a straight red-card in the match against Highlanders last month.