The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Netball Association’s organising secretary Alex Masimba has called on schools to develop players from grassroots. Masimba was part of the organising committee that successfully hosted the Elite Primary Schools Association 2022 Section B netball festival at Windview Primary School in Ruwa at the weekend. The matches were officiated by ZINA umpires. “I am very happy with the way the school kids conducted themselves and with this kind of tournaments, netball, as a sport, will go far. There was tough competition and I believe we need to develop these young players from these ages. “I like the way the ESPA are taking grassroots development for netball which is improving. We need some Gems of tomorrow and it all starts here. “The festival provided the Under-13 and Fillies the platform to showcase their netball skills. Ten matches were played in each age-group to make a total of 20 matches played on the day,” said Masimba. The host school, Windview Primary School, dominated both the Under-13 and Fillies sections. The school came out top in the round-robin format used as they managed to score 54 goals, followed by Beatrice Primary School who managed to score 37 goals and in third place was Admiral Tait Primary School who managed to score 34 goals. For the Fillies section, the host Windview Primary School once again came out tops as they managed to score 14 goals in total, followed by Beatrice Primary School who scored nine goals while Lewisam Primary came third after scoring eight goals. The Head in Charge EPSA Netball, Egines Dube, said the festival aims to hone netball skills at grassroots level. “It was very important for players to balance up their development bearing in mind that the sports industry is now a billion-dollar industry able to sustain livelihood to those who take it seriously. “We are grateful to ZINA, through Masimba, for ensuring that the game of netball is coached and officiated by well-trained officials,” said Dube.