The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter Herentals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 WhaWha  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  0 HERENTALS coach Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva lamented his charges’ bluntness in front of goal following this Castle Lager Premier Soccer League stalemate at the National Sports Stadium yesterday. Although the Students moved two places up to fifth on the log table, at least for 24 hours, Mutiwekuziva said it was two points lost rather than one picked. Herentals were the favourites going into this fixture against the log anchors but the home side missed several scoring chances which came their way. “Well done to WhaWha for the fighting spirit they put on. I was looking forward to picking three points at home but we missed a lot of chances. We are a team that normally take the maximum points at home but this match was tough,” said Mutiwekuziva. “I am disappointed we didn’t win this match but if you look at it from a tactical point of view, well the point will add value to where we want to be as a team.” Mutiwekuziva was forced to take off his star player Tafadzwa Jim who complained of stomach pains at the half time break and once the winger was off, Herentals never looked threatening. Yet they were supposed to have scored at least once in the opening phase but Blessing Majarira and Clemence Gobvu failed to utilise the chances which came their way. And once the visitors realized they could squeeze a point against a team that won the reverse tie 3-0 in Gweru, they concentrated the midfield making it difficult for their hosts to play. Coach Luke Petros was happy to take a point in a match he missed his two leading marksmen Jayden Barake and Albert Matewu through suspension. WhaWha though, remain at the bottom of the log with 19 points to their name after 22 games. Teams Herentals: Takudzwa Chikosi, Wilmore Chimbetu, Brighton Majarira (Avi Mataranyika, Blessing Majarira, Ali Maliselo (Davison Marowa 62min), Prince Chama, Zibusiso Ruguchu, Innocent Benza (John Zhuwawo 62min) Tafadzwa Jim (Tino Benza 46min), Clemence Gobvu (Edgar Mhungu 51min), William Kapumha Whawha: Allan Masaya, Tendaishe Magwaza, Terrence Daka, Roy Useni, Justine Gadzani, Munyaradzi Chirwa, Raymond Horonga, Takudzwa Jukulile (Sida Ganje 80min),Tineyi Chitora, Evidence Mawanda (Baggio Shome 85min), English Calum (Wellington Mapuwa 60min)