The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter AMID a cloud of uncertainty hanging over Dynamos coach Tonderai Ndiraya’s head, questions have been raised over the Glamour Boys’ transfer policy. DeMbare have hit a huge hump in their quest for the Castle Lager Premiership football glory after winning just a single game in the past seven matches. That poor run has allowed leaders FC Platinum to open an eight-point gap ahead of the Harare giants who sit third on the table. And the discourse has largely zeroed in on the gaffer Ndiraya who, however, has the full backing of the club’s executive, at least for now. But there are concerns the Glamour Boys are getting it all wrong in their transfer business, especially in their recruitment of foreigners. Ndiraya has been putting in the work and even grinding the results even if his players have not been convincing in most aspects of the game. DeMbare have been turning to midfielders and defenders for goals while the strike-force has literally been helpless in the 20 round of fixtures played so far. So poor has been the strikers’ return they have scored a single goal between themselves this season. Nigerian Alex Orotomal got the opening goal in Dynamos’ 2-0 victory at Bulawayo Chiefs in April and that remains the only goal from a forward at the team this season. Cameroonian Albert Eonde, Ghanaian Victor Ofori, Evans Katema and Tinashe Makanda have all failed to find the target despite enjoying some considerable game-time at the Harare giants. While Katema and Makanda joined Dynamos at a considerably low fee, it is the trio of Eonde, Ofori and Orotomal, who cost the club a combined US$15 000, who have especially been disappointing. Eonde was offloaded at FC Platinum where he hardly featured for Norman Mapeza’s side. On the few occasions he has been thrust into action, Eonde rarely came to the party and his transfer to Dynamos was as surprising as it was shocking. And 20 games into the season, Eonde has failed to score or even assist despite playing in close to 50 per cent of the matches. He even missed a penalty when Dynamos drew 1-1 against Bulawayo City at the National Sports Stadium. Interestingly, Eonde was not the designated penalty taker but wrestled out all the other players for the ball after the team had been awarded the spot-kick. Eonde cost Dynamos US$4 000. Orotomal has been worst not just at Dynamos but in the entire league. Since joining the Glamour Boys in March, the Nigerian, who arrived at a cost of US$6 000, has struggled not only to score but to even create scoring chances for teammates. At only 22 and a perfect built for a forward, Orotomal should be performing better. Ofori is injury-prone and he has been up and down. It is only safe to say he hasn’t yet arrived at DeMbare. “It’s a matter of time before I let the beast in me roar,” Ofori told The Herald in May. “I am happy to be at a perfect club that suits my type of play and what I stand for. “I am a big player and playing for a team with huge aspirations is what I can term a perfect match. “I am on and off the field because of injuries but once I get into the groove, I will show everyone the real stuff I am made of. I am at the right team and my mind is fixed on winning the league title.” But two months on, the player, who arrived at DeMbare on a US$5 000 deal, is still to pitch up. However, another Ghanaian player, Emmanuel Paga, has been playing well until recently scoring five goals and dishing two assists. The former AFC Leopards midfielder is the leading scorer at Dynamos despite being a midfielder who is often deployed in the flanks. He, like Orotomal, arrived at a cost of US$6 000. Defender Sylvester Appiah of Ghana, who arrived at US$4 000, has played very few games as Ndiraya has mostly played a twin central defensive pair of captain Partson Jaure and Frank Makarati. But despite those shortcomings in front of goal, failure by Dynamos to pay their players winning bonuses has also been blamed as one of the factors leading to their dismal showing. Dynamos have not paid their players winning bonuses since last year with team leadership indicating they have an agreement with the team to pay at the end of the season. Whether the club will fulfil that pledge remains to be seen but players have since approached their representative board, Footballers Union of Zimbabwe.