The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter AFTER three years in the ring oblivion, thanks to the Covid-19 catastrophe, WIBA intercontinental lightweight boxing champion Monalisa “Queen of the Jungle” Sibanda will finally have the chance to defend her crown on July 27. The challenger is a highly-rated pugilist from Uganda, Small Valente Aciro, and the venue is Kingdom Hotel in the resort town of Victoria Falls. Dubbed, “The Showcase Fight in the Smoke that Thunders”, the fight, promoted by Zimbabwe’s boxing granddad, Stalin Mau Mau, has fittingly been chosen to spice-up a two-day WBC and ABU workshop to be held in this country for the first time. Sibanda should probably count herself lucky to have kept the belt for so long before she could defend it. But she knows she won’t need any kiss of luck this time around as she headlines a bill of six bouts lined-up to put the icing on the WBC and ABU’s meetings cake. She told the media yesterday that she has been preparing for this fight since April 2019 when she beat Kenya’s Joyce Awino to claim the WIBA intercontinental glory. She said she is fired up and ready to dominate her challenger in the resort town. “I won the WIBA title on April 27, 2019 in Nairobi, Kenya after defeating Kenyan Joyce Awino. “And I started training for the title defence the day I won the title. I am a firm believer in the saying ‘Champions are made in training’. I have spent the last three years training, preparing and undertaking different tactical and technical training so that I can successfully defend my title,” Sibanda said. “My technical team has worked very closely with me ensuring that I am in the best shape physically and mentally for the upcoming fight. “I have worked closely with my management team Daneves who have provided the financial support for my training and ensured that I adhere to my training programmes. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation as well as the Government of Zimbabwe for their unconditional support.” Speaking at the same occasion to launch the tournament, promoter Mau Mau said corporates should take advantage of the growing status of boxing in the country and inject resources. “The tournament is being hosted by Mau Mau Boxing Promotions in partnership with the Victoria Falls Boxing Academy. “The hosting of this tournament sets yet again another stage for us to showcase the abundant boxing talent we have in our country. This event is in sync with Zimbabwe National Boxing and Wrestling Control Boards vision of developing an inclusive and excelling combat sporting nation that produces world champions in boxing,” said Mau Mau.