The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter BOXER Brendon “Boika” Denes is back on track after rising five places to become the second-placed pugilist to challenge for the African Boxing Union’s welterweight title. The Zimbabwean had crestfallen over the past two years since he was stripped of his World Boxing Federation (WBF) belt after flouting some rules. Denes and another highly-rated local fighter, Freeman Mabvongwe, were banned by the Zimbabwe Boxing and Wrestling Control Board in May 2020 after they defied a directive to withdraw from an all-amateur Tokyo Olympic Qualifiers held in Senegal. Although the board later lifted the suspension on the duo, WBF had already forfeited their title from the Masvingo-based pugilist Denes. His WBO title was also forfeited last year after he failed to defend it on two occasions, first against Tanzania’s Hassan Mwakinyo due to an injury before his camp refused to take the offer to fight Namibia’s Charles Chimina. The title was declared vacant and Chimina eventually won that belt. That meant Denes had to literally start all over again. And after detaching himself from the Charles Manyuchi Boxing Academy to be an independent boxer, he has been picking the pieces, getting fights from as far afield as India and Russia. Denes faced-off against Roman Zakirov of India in an eight-round bout that he controversially lost on points in May before he also clashed with Russian Vitaly Petraykov last month over 10 rounds. He also lost the fight on points. And his never-say-die-spirit has lifted him on the ABU ratings from seventh to second on the challengers list. The ABU title is currently held by South Africa’s Roarke Knapp who won the badge last month. Denes, though, told The Herald yesterday he was not immediately challenging for the title but he is looking for another non-title fight to help him get the perfect shape for the big one. “I am very delighted to have moved five places up the ladder on these ABU ratings for July. This is what every boxer dreams of. I am excited and motivated,” said Denes. “I have been working hard behind the scenes, of course, with the help of other boxers like Vanzo (Evans Usavihwevhu) and my mentor Charles Manyuchi. “Remember what happened to me. After I was stripped (of the title), you know I had to be mentally tough, I had hit rock bottom and I knew the only way out was to start all over again. “It was hard at first knowing I had been to another level and starting again was really mentally challenging. “But all the same, I just told myself I would put in the work and go out there, challenge the best boxers and improve my range. “I am not challenging for the title outright at the moment. I have had two high-profile fights over the laast two months and I hope to get another one at the end of this month or next month. “That will be my final preparatory fight for a title bout. I will see what comes to the table. I will only work hard at training, keep it cool and see what happens.” While he continues unattached to any stable, Denes revealed he was looking for a suitable home to join.