The Herald Chelsea are reportedly trying to hijack Nordi Mukiele’s move to Paris Saint-Germain — and are willing to offer RB Leipzig Timo Werner as part of the deal. The Blues have suffered a major transfer blow with the news that Barcelona had snatched Sevilla defender Jules Kounde from under their noses. Chelsea are also reportedly open to letting £72 million flop Kepa Arrizabalaga join Serie A side Napoli on loan with an obligation to buy. Kepa has played just 11 Premier League games in the last two seasons, playing second fiddle to Edouard Mendy.— The Sun Leicester midfielder Youri Tielemans remains a transfer target for the Gunners . . . but they are yet to submit an offer. That’s according to transfer guru Fabrizio Romano, who believes the Belgium international wants to leave Leicester this summer. The 25-year-old has just one year remaining on his contract and is reportedly not interested in signing a fresh deal before September. Speaking to the Que Golazo YouTube channel, Romano claimed Arsenal are still in contact with Tielemans and his representatives. No bid has been submitted to Leicester manager Brendan Rodgers and other clubs are thought to be monitoring his situation. — The Mirror Xavi has asked Barcelona president Joan Laporta to re-sign former team-mate Lionel Messi. Xavi has urged Barcelona to bring about a sensational return for club legend Messi next summer, according to reports in Spain. Messi was expected to extend his deal with Barcelona last summer following positive initial talks between all parties last summer, but LaLiga’s financial regulations prevented a deal from happening. — Daily Mail Barcelona president Joan Laporta said Lionel Messi’s “chapter” at Barcelona is “not over” — 11 months after the 35-year-old Argentina playmaker ended his 21-year spell at the club and joined Paris St-Germain. — (ESPN) Barcelona have not accepted any offers for Netherlands midfielder Frenkie de Jong, with Manchester United heavily linked with the 25-year-old. — (ESPN) But United are considering a move for Lazio and Serbia midfielder Sergej Milinkovic-Savic, 27, as an alternative to de Jong. — (Calciomercato — in Italian) Liverpool are deciding whether to accept a bid of 23m euros (£19.5m) made by Juventus for Brazil forward Roberto Firmino, 30. — (Tuttomercato — in Italian) Tottenham are willing to sell France midfielder Tanguy Ndombele for the right price, with Galatasaray interested in the 25-year-old. — (Media Foot — in French) Arsenal flop Nicolas Pepe has hinted he wants to fight for his place at the club, insisting he is “focused” and ‘determined’ to make his mark. The Ivory Coast international remains the club’s record signing after joining in a £72million deal from Lille in 2019, but he has struggled to make a regular impact in north London. — The Daily Mail Juventus also have France attacker Anthony Martial, 26, on their wishlist, but Manchester United have no intention of selling him. — (Mirror) Sevilla and France centre-back Jules Kounde, 23, would be prepared to accept personal terms with Barcelona. — (Fabrizio Romano) Chelsea could block Barcelona from signing Spain defender Cesar Azpilicueta, 32, if the Catalan club hijack their own plans to bring Kounde to Stamford Bridge. — (Mail) Arsenal have confirmed their interest in Lyon midfielder Lucas Paqueta, 24, but are yet to make an approach for the Brazil international. — (Times) The Gunners have rejected a £7m bid, with £3m in add-ons, from Fulham for German goalkeeper Bernd Leno, 30, who has already agreed personal terms with the newly-promoted club. — (CBS Sports) Newcastle United and Everton are stepping up their pursuit of Chelsea and Albania striker Armando Broja after West Ham dropped their interest in the 20-year-old. — (i Sport) Meanwhile, the Hammers are weighing up a move for Blackburn and Chile striker Ben Brereton Diaz, 23. — (The Sun) Nottingham Forest are targeting Burnley winger Maxwel Cornet, 25, with Fulham and Everton also interested in the Ivory Coast international. — (Athletic) Newcastle will make a move for Burnley’s English winger Dwight McNeil, 22, if Leeds United refuse to lower their £35m asking price for their English attacker Jack Harrison, 25. — (The Sun) Paris St-Germain have agreed a £13m loan deal for RB Leipzig and France defender Nordi Mukiele, 24. — (Mail) Manchester United are monitoring Red Bull Salzburg and Slovenia forward Benjamin Sesko, 19. — (Fabrizio Romano) Fulham are finalising a £6.4m deal for Wolfsburg and Switzerland right-back Kevin Mbabu, 27. — (Mail) Crystal Palace manager Patrick Vieira has no intention of letting their new English winger Malcolm Ebiowei, 18, leave on loan this summer. — (Fabrizio Romano)