The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter THE ZIMBABWE Olympic Committee forum are set to make a return this Saturday after a three-year hiatus when stakeholders meet at Prince Edward School. The forum presents an educative and interactive platform for ZOC and National Federations to share and discuss critical issues. It will precede the annual meeting due to take place on Sunday at the Rainbow Towers. In a statement yesterday, ZOC said the forum enhances the AGM. “The ZOC forum returns after a three-year hiatus to enhance the AGM. It will be held a day before the AGM. “The forum presents an educative and interactive platform for ZOC and the National Federations to share and discuss critical issues.” ZOC president, Thabani Gonye, four ZOC Commission Members — Ringisai Mapondera, Merit Munzwembiri, Cuthbert Nyasango and Rick Fulton, as well as anti-doping education officer Charity Nyamayedenga and ZOC chief executive Stephen Mudawarima — will address the forum. It is open to national federations’ presidents, secretary-generals as well as the media. “Topics to be covered will range from a public presentation of the ZOC strategic plan to a 30-minute anti-doping education awareness session. “The ZOC will take advantage of this platform to sign a four-year working MoU with the Zimbabwe National Paralympic Committee (ZNPC), in a move that will see enhanced and greater cooperation between the two organisations. “This MoU is crucial as ZNPC is critical stakeholder in the Sport family and strategic for further partnerships scope.” Then on Sunday focus will be on the AGM where Gonye is expected to deliver the keynote address highlighting critical milestones since April 2021 and work done under the National Olympic Committee’s strategic plan. “The AGM notice was circulated to all members on the 9th of June, 45 days before the meeting in line with the ZOC constitution. Federations in good standing will have voting powers on issues and motions moved during the AGM. “This will be the first AGM under the Thabani Gonye-led board who came into position at the elective 2021 AGM. “The president will deliver a keynote address highlighting critical milestones since April 2021 and on the work done under the new strategic plan which came into effect in September 2021,” read part of the statement. The ZOC 2021-2025 strategic plan focuses on four key performance areas of athlete development and support, organisational effectiveness and sustainability, business development and Olympism and Olympic Education. The ZOC chief executive Stephen Mudawarima is also expected to report on the executive board activities of the previous year stretching from April 2021 to June 2022 while the treasurer Godfrey Sunguro will present the audited 2021 financials.