The Herald Ellina Mhlanga–Senior Sports Reporter WITH all the players called up for the Gems’ Netball World Cup qualifiers preparations in camp now, coach Ropafadzo Mutsauki says they can now move a gear up as they seek to come up with their final team to do duty in South Africa next month. This is the final selection camp for the qualifiers running from August 20 to 27 in Pretoria. “Everyone is now in and we are now working on the game-plan and team building, so if we have about two weeks and get a friendly I think we will be okay. “We still have to work more on our midcourt, though, and a bit of shooting. We have tried to create competition for our shooters by bringing in Nicole Muzanenhamo so that we come out with the best team,” said Mutsauki. Captain Felisitus Kwangwa and South Africa-based goal-keeper Yeukai Chamba arrived on Monday to complete the 19-member squad. Indications are that the camp will break for a few days before the final team that would have been named return for their last camp before they depart for South Africa. Chamba, who turns out for Western Cape Tornadoes in the Telkom Netball League, said it’s an honour being part of the Gems squad and is looking forward to the next few weeks. “This is the second time around so I am feeling a lot more comfortable. I know some of the girls so I am quite excited to see what the camp has to offer. I am sure it’s going to be tough, there is lots of competition and lots of talent here, so it’s not going to be easy but I am very excited,” said Chamba. The first week saw the technical team focusing on the fitness of the players. Although most of them have been active in their respective leagues, the coach was concerned with the fitness levels. However, as they entered the second week of the training camp, Mutsauki is encouraged by the progress they are making. “Every day we see some improvements and I am hopeful in the next two weeks we will have a (good) team. “From what we are seeing, things are shaping up. The good thing about sport is that performance does the talking. So far I am content with their fitness level because that was our focus area in the first week. “Their fitness levels show that the training at their clubs is different to when they come to the national team because we are working every day, there is more pressure here compared to clubs. So the first week is intense because we are trying to get them to the fitness level we want. “Sharon (Bwanali) is making good progress, her recovery has been positive. What is left now is to work on her weight, so right now we need to work on her fitness. If she can use the weight to her advantage, that will be good but she needs to be fit,” said Mutsauki. Bwanali, who is one of the regular players for the Gems, suffered a knee injury two months ago that saw her missing out of the team’s last assignment in Malawi.