The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter GAVHUNGA High School dominated the inaugural Pavcon Secondary Schools’ sports tournament after they won three gold medals at Mupereki Primary School at Mamina in Mhondoro on Friday. The school, which is home to Mashonaland West National Association of School Heads vice-chairman, Abinel Mutembwa, managed to win gold medals in girls volleyball, boys football and boys volleyball. The tournament, organised by businessman Shelton Paza, the founder and managing director of Pavcon Industries, a leading concrete pavement manufacturer, saw four schools battling it out in different sports codes. Dondoshava won gold medal and US$50 prize money in the girls football competition with Nyika High School taking home the netball trophy. Mutembwa said they are happy as they had gone for years without having any sporting activities in the area and it gave the athletes something to cheer about. “We are very happy to have such a big event and I would like to thank the schools who allowed their pupils to turn up for this event. The tournament went on well and it was very competitive. “We are grateful to the organisers for giving our pupils something to keep them occupied as sports help to keep the youths away from drugs. “We are hopeful the tournament will return bigger and better next year,” said Mutembwa. Pava said he was happy that the tournament went on well without any obstacles and will make it an annual event since they had a positive response. “I am very happy to have managed to hold the secondary schools tournament after we also had a primary schools tournament. “The games went on well and as Pavcon Industries we will continue to support such initiatives as they help the youths. This was a way of giving back to the community where I come from and I hope we will have more corporates doing the same in their respective rural homes. “I am thankful to everyone who made this a success as I would not have managed to stage it alone. I also would like to congratulate the winners and I promise next year the tournament will be bigger and better,” said Paza.