The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter FORMER Dynamos goalkeeper Japhet “Shotcat” Mparutsa is looking forward to take his former side’s juniors for a tour of the United Kingdom where he is now based. Mparutsa’s idea was revealed by Wellington Pombi who donated some football jerseys to the Dynamos juniors’ team which is currently playing in the Harare Province Division Two B League. Pombi, who is young brother to the late pugilist Langton “Schoolboy” Tinago, is also based in the United Kingdom and was back home for a holiday. Pombi was back home for a week where he had a tombstone unveiling of his late brother Tinago who passed away on July 18, 2018. Speaking at the handover ceremony, which was graced by Dynamos board members and administrators, the medical practitioner said the partnership was the beginning of big things to come. “I am very grateful to the Dynamos family for allowing us to donate this kit for the juniors’ team for their league games. The idea has always been in the pipeline and with the support I got from other Zimbabweans in the diaspora, it was very easy to get the kits. I am humbled. “I consulted Mparutsa and he gave me the idea to give back to the club as growing up everyone had a soft spot for the team. I think the gesture will go a long way in motivating the young players whom I understand have gone for 10 games without losing a game. “We are hopeful we will have more players coming on board to support the team and I am grateful that Mparutsa, who has been supportive, is looking forward to inviting a Dynamos side to the United Kingdom for friendly matches. It is through the former players who support each other that we have managed to bring happiness to the country’s biggest club,” said Pombi. Mparutsa, who served the national team and Dynamos, also sent a book which he authored, to Dynamos’ sponsors, Sakunda Holdings, director Kudakwashe Tagwirei. The book was handed over to club chairman Musa Gwasira who said the gesture by Pombi will go a long way in helping the club. “We are very glad that even those in the diaspora took time to remember the club and we hope to have more partners in the future. “As Dynamos, we are open to such support and it will help our future, especially support to the juniors,” said Gwasira.