The Herald Tadious Manyepo in VICTORIA FALLS LOCAL boxers are in line to secure more World Boxing Council and African Boxing Union bouts, in a development that will see the country become more noticeable on the world boxing map. This follows the appointment of Zimbabwe National Boxing and Wrestling Control Board chief executive, Lawrence Zimbudzana, to the ABU executive committee. The committee was appointed at the close of the WBC official and judges training as well as the ABU convention in Victoria Falls on Thursday. The annual events, which were making a rebound after a two-year Covid-19-induced hiatus, were hosted in this country for the first time ever. And the events, besides raking thousands of United States dollars in tourism receipts and related costs for the country, have opened new avenues for one of Zimbabwe’s brightest sports, at least, in potential. But it is the appointment of Zimbudzana, who has proven to be one of the finest sports administrators on land, to the ABU board that is the icing on the cake. ABU is an affiliate of the WBC which is ranked as the best sanctioning board in global boxing. Only two Zimbabweans, Charles Manyuchi and Kudakwashe “Take Money” Chiwandire, have managed to stake a claim on any of the WBC’s titles. Manyuchi was the WBC silver welterweight champion until he relinquished the title in March 2017 while Chiwandire is the current holder of the WBC interim super-bantamweight belt. She will defend the crown on August 27 at the Harare International Conference Centre against Zulina Munoz of Mexico, in yet another historic occasion, given the country has never hosted a WBC-sanctioned fight in history. And more could be on the way in light of the successful events held in the resort town of Victoria Falls this week and the appointment of Zimbudzana in a key position. Zimbudzana becomes only the second administrator from Zimbabwe to land a top post in an influential international board after Richard Hondo who was part of the Commonwealth Boxing Council. “As a country, we are very excited to have been seconded in a key role like this,” Zimbudzana said. “I should say that as a country, we are quite excited that we have been appointed to the executive board of the ABU. “It’s actually a show of confidence in the country in terms of our capacity to help the development of boxing at that particular level. I hope that it will be quite beneficial to the country as we will always be getting firsthand information in terms of developments that will be happening at that level. “We will also make sure that the country also benefits in terms of other capacity development programmes. We are also committed to play a role in the development of this particular sport internationally. “This appointment actually speaks to this country’s policy and strategy which is to promote sport and diplomacy.” Houcine Houchi of Tunisia, who presided over the two events in Victoria Falls, retains his post as the ABU president. Houchi is also the WBC vice-president. On the other hand, Peter Ngatane of South Africa, who also attended the Victoria Falls meetings, remains the vice-president of the ABU. The executive board will serve until 2026. ABU Executive Board President: Houcine Houichi (Tunisia) Vice-president: Peter Ngatane (South-Africa) Secretary-general: Maureen Mulangira (Uganda) Members: Lonzoe Defector Zimba (Malawi), Tiouta Traore (Mali), Lawrence Zimbudzana (Zimbabwe), Rafiu Oladipo (Nigeria) and Dr Chingumbe (Zambia)