The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter PREMIERSHIP Soccer League chairman Farai Jere yesterday challenged the domestic topflight clubs to bring their best to the table when the 2022 edition of the Chibuku Super Cup kicks off next month. The draw for the tournament, which celebrates its eighth anniversary this year, was conducted in Harare yesterday, with some exciting match-ups. Traditional giants avoided colliding in the early rounds, as the tournament returned to the traditional knock-out format, with the top 14 teams, as of Week 17, automatically qualifying to the first round draw. The bottom four are set to go through the preliminary round, using match day 17 log standings. The top eight teams were seeded at the draw and these included holders FC Platinum, Chicken Inn, Dynamos, Manica Diamonds, Triangle, Black Rhinos, Bulawayo Chiefs and last year’s finalists Ngezi Platinum Stars. The bottom four teams will start from the preliminary round to be played at Mandava on August 6, as Cranborne Bullets clash with Whawha while ZPC Kariba face Bulawayo City. Venues for the other knock-out rounds will be announced in due course. The final is set for November 19. “We anticipate a thrilling tournament this year,” said Jere. “We are confident that football fans will attend the matches in their numbers. “As we begin preparations for the tournament, I would like to encourage our teams to bring out their best, to adhere to the rules and regulations of the tournament and most importantly enjoy the game. I wish all the participating teams a successful tournament.” According to the draw conducted by PSL Competitions Manager, Elisha Mandireva, Dynamos were the only seeded team among the traditional giants since CAPS United and Highlanders missed the top eight by the time the first round matches ended. But they were spared meeting in the first round. Highlanders, who are the only club among the trio to win Chibuku Super Cup in 2019, will have to negotiate a tricky path against Triangle. Ailing giants CAPS United have a date with Black Rhinos while erratic Dynamos will face the winner between Whawha and Cranborne Bullets. The giants have not been doing well in the league competition of late, and the cup presents a rare opportunity for silverware and redemption. FC Platinum are the holders after beating Ngezi Platinum in a gripping final, which was decided via a shoot-out at Mandava last year. Norman Mapeza’s men will begin the defence of their title against new boys Tenax. The 2016 champions Ngezi Platinum Stars, who recently parted ways with head coach Benjani Mwaruwari, were paired with Herentals while Manica Diamonds and Yadah also savour an exciting date. Bulawayo Chiefs will face off with either ZPC Kariba or Bulawayo City to complete the first round fixtures. The Chibuku Super Cup, which returned last year after a one-year gap due to Covid-19 complications, has reverted to the old knock-out structure. The tournament adopted a unique format last year where teams were grouped in four clusters across the country before narrowing to the quarter-finals. PSL chairman Jere said the league is looking forward to more milestones as they celebrate eight years of the premier Chibuku Super Cup competition. “This tournament not only brings exciting matches for football lovers around the country but it also provides the opportunity for players to show off their skills and teams a chance to see how they measure up against their opponents in local tournaments. “The tournament has been a great success since its inception in 2014. It is an achievement for us to reach this milestone — eight years of growing and developing this wonderful game across Zimbabwe. As PSL we are honoured and proud of the work that has been accomplished through this sponsorship. “Through our partnership with Delta Beverages we have managed to build a strong brand in the Chibuku Super Cup, which continuously attracts fans across the country, both on television and at stadiums. “During the last final at Mandava Stadium, the environment was quite electric. This we believe is the heart of this partnership, connecting Chibuku Super to thousands of passionate football fans while the PSL continues to grow as a commercial brand. “We need to be branded, we need something to play for. We once experienced an unbranded league, and it is quite painful. So on behalf of the PSL, I would like to express our sincere gratitude to Delta Beverages for their continued support,” said Jere. Delta Beverages Sorghum Beer Marketing Manager Patience Dingani confirmed the company’s commitment to football as follow up to the US$375 000 sponsorship deal with PSL, for the knock-out tournament, spread across three years. “After a two-year break caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, we made a commitment last year at the relaunch to continue with this partnership. “Today is a fulfilment of that commitment, a strong commitment to the development of sport in this country. As a reminder, our Chibuku Super Cup total sponsorship over a three-year period, remains at US$375 000. “The Chibuku Super Cup held last year brought a lot of excitement and the finals held at Mandava will remain in fans’ memories for many years to come. “We look forward to another thrilling round of games,” said Dingani. FC Platinum pocketed US$75 000 for winning the title last year. Giants CAPS United believe the upcoming edition could be the big opportunity for turnaround after experiencing poor fortunes this year. The club’s chief executive Charlie Jones was pumped up after drawing Black Rhinos in the first round. “I think it was a very good draw and it comes when we are starting to play well. So we hope to take the cup home with us, definitely. At least we have to win something this year. “It will mean a hell of a lot to the club and to our supporters and we have to give all we got and leave no stone unturned. “Playing in this tournament is self-motivating. We are looking for redemption, we are looking to resuscitate our campaign and this is the biggest motivation we have,” said Jones. Chibuku Super Cup Draw Preliminary round (August 6) Cranborne Bullets v Whawha; ZPC Kariba v Bulawayo City First Round (August 20-21) Chicken Inn v Harare City; FC Platinum v Tenax; Dynamos v Cranborne Bullets/Whawha; Manica Diamonds v Yadah; Triangle v Highlanders; Black Rhinos v CAPS Utd; Ngezi Platinum v Herentals; Bulawayo Chiefs v ZPC Kariba/Bulawayo City Quarterfinals: September 17-18 Semi-finals: October 15-16 Final: November 19