The Herald  Marian Nyasha Kwari-Herbalist The Zimbabwean staple food is sadza. Most of us have sadza daily at night with meat and vegetables. The farmers have varieties of the plant in their fields and farms. It is cheap and easy to manage and also a cheap source of starch/carbohydrates. Hello friends and welcome to this week’s edition of our herbal space. Many will wonder why I am writing about corn or chibage, when in most cases, I am known to discourage people, who are sick and those who are health conscious to refrain from taking too much of it. I am also saying the same now and will encourage people to go back to use zviyo, mapfunde, and mhunga in place of the maize meal. There will always be many good reasons why it should be so and we have learnt from bad experiences we have had to know what to do. That means if you are conscious of your health, then remember to think of varieties of other vegetable starches to replace sadza. Butternut, pumpkins, sweet potatoes, potatoes, brown rice, mutakura wenyimo nenzungu, mhodzi dzemanhanga, mapudzi, cassava and much more, will make up part of that endless list. Get in touch for more details. Today we are interested in learning about corn silk. People say rurebvu rwechibage or ndebvu dzemagwere. This is the part that is medicinal. It can be carefully harvested and stored during harvest time. Cornsilk is a diuretic and very effective tea for men who have problems urinating, especially when they are suffering from prostate related problems. It could also be of interest to many people who are overweight, for it is a harmless but effective weight loss tea, of course taken along with a well planned diet for weight loss. It works well when combined with hibiscus tea for weight loss. Many individuals with weight issues will benefit from the hibiscus tea for regulation of blood pressure. Dried cornsilk is a natural laxative. For disorders of the urinary tract with formations of stones, edema, fluid in the heart, cystitis, gout and rheumatism, cornsilk is an effective tea, and especially when combined with dandelion and Kigelia. Please note that the combinations have to be personalised. Also make sure that your cornsilk is harvested from organic maize plants with no fertilisers. Cornsilk can be effective for bed-wetting of children or older people and for renal colic. For all these disorders please come in and get help that is specific. Remember to drink Graviola as families. It is a total immune booster, and toning tea. Look after yourselves and each other. Till next time, God Bless. Miriam Kwari 0773378571