The Herald Marian Nyasha Kwari Herbalist I am sure bananas came from paradise. This exotic looking, giant-leafed “tree” grows in many parts of Zimbabwe. In towns and cities bananas are widely available in shops and on the streets. Hello friends and welcome to this week’s edition of our herbal space. Today we are talking about one of the most amazing fruit common to everyone — the banana fruit. This fruit is so common yet many among us underrate it just as an ordinary fruit. How many among us know that the bananas can be used for both traditional medicine and nutrition. Numerous research studies, and clinical investigations indicate that different banana portions have medicinal properties that can be used to treat conditions like diabetes, hypertension, cancer, ulcers, diarrhoea, Alzheimer’s and infections. Did you know that a medium-sized banana provides around 90 calories, about 23g of protein, almost 3g of fibre and 12g of natural sugar, which are glucose, fructose and sucrose, a massive 360mg of potassium, 27-30mg of magnesium and 6-10 mg of calcium? Well, that is why bananas are good for us. Because of their potassium concentration, bananas play a crucial role in the diet. One of the most crucial electrolytes in the body is potassium. Potassium regulates fluid balance, controls heartbeat, guards against heart illness, fortifies artery walls, stabilises blood pressure, and guards against bodily tension, which if unchecked leads to stroke. Due to their high fibre content, bananas in the diet help promote and normalise regular bowel movements, soothe stomach ulcers, and provide us the energy we need in our busy environments. One of the herbal lessons I received mentioned that the Indian tradition advises eating a banana first thing in the morning to feel like a king. They claim that, wherever possible, it is ideal to mash the banana with some raw honey and cinnamon. This quickly activates the carbohydrates and potassium, making them available to the body and clearing any phlegm build-up. The banana heart-shaped bulb, when combined with graviola, turmeric, honey, and cayenne, is a source of a wonderful tea for the heart. Remember that heart patients should be cautious not to consume excessive amounts of water or other beverages. Get in touch so that we can share notes and recipes. The stalk that carries the bunch of bananas is full of a liquid which can be extracted for help with hemorrhoids. It’s an old fashioned treatment tincture for that discomfort one feels when they have piles. It is successfully used with plum juice and fruit to treat piles or hemorrhoids. Benefits Bananas enhance cardiovascular health. Keeps blood sugar levels stable. Antioxidants are present in bananas. Bananas are beneficial to the skin. Vitamins A, B, and C, as well as minerals like potassium, magnesium, and phosphorus, as well as dietary fibre, are abundant in bananas. Bananas aid in the prevention of anaemia. Bananas stimulate libido. Remember to drink Graviola as families. It is a total immune booster, and toning tea. Look after yourselves and each other. Till next time, God Bless. Miriam Kwari 0773378571