The Herald Reginald Chirenje Youth Interactive Writer Modelling is one of the most glamorous and lucrative professions in the world. Media is advancing day by day hence there is a huge demand for models. Modelling is in demand for many things such as brand advertisements, posting for artists, photographers, promotions and entertainment sectors such as television shows. There is no need for formal education or training to become a model although the career requires dedication, discipline, and confidence to carry yourself. Shalom Omega Maquina is a model who resides in Harare and she’s aged 23. The young lady became popular after she won the ‘Talent Queen’ position (Miss Curvy) in the year 2018. She also worked with a number of popular fashion brands and Zimbabwean musicians. Shalom started modelling when she was in high school. Her modelling never started as a dream, but rather a motivation from her close friend who was in the industry already. “Growing up and being raised in a patriarchal society made me value and appreciate young inspirational, independent women. “She came across a lot of setbacks during her early stages in the industry but never gave up on her modelling career.” Shalom gave a narration on how she lost Miss Trione and Miss Plus Size back then due to lack of confidence. “The modelling career is incredibly stressful, first models often face casting refusals that might harm their self-esteem but you should not give up” she added. “It is characterised with hard work, face dozens of refusals from modelling scouts which might result in depression, harsh cuties, sexual harassment, extremely stress levels and severe muscle pain at times.” “Most of professional models are young ladies who are forced to work and study at college at the same time.” They don’t have a minute of free time to hang out with family and friends. They are overloaded with responsibilities covered in modelling content and tons of academic assignments and tasks which need to be completed within given deadlines. However, modelling is a competitive career. A model’s basic job includes displaying fashion and fashion is everywhere. It is connected to our lives in many ways and hence has a strong influence on society at large. Fashion is said to be a perspective of culture and society. Therefore, models are a reflection of people’s interests, era and society. Apart from achieving titles, there are a lot of things that one can get and learn only from being a model. These include new experiences, free stuff at times, travelling, publicity and exposure above all. “Being a model will expose you to a lot of different skills such as proper posture, communication skills and poise that you can apply to other careers in life”. “Models are more than just some human hangers for stylist clothes. Youth of every generation look up to them for a fashion statement. They put lives into clothes and show how clothes look on the human body. “Fashion would never have been interesting if they were only clothes in stores folded on a rack. We are a society that spends much on beauty and looks presentable,” explained the model. Fashion has a command on our lives in ways we cannot imagine. We are all vulnerable to drastic changes in lifestyle and culture, if a stylist decides to do so.