The Herald LONDON. — English Premiership football club Tottenham Hotspur have announced the signing of Everton forward Richarlison in a £60million transfer. The Brazilian has signed a contract until the summer of 2027 and becomes Antonio Conte’s fourth signing of the summer transfer window. Richarlison (25) has made 173 English Premier League appearances, scoring 48 goals, during spells at Watford and Everton. The Brazil international played a key role in helping secure Everton’s top-flight status last season. He netted 10 goals and assisted five, with six of his goals coming in the Toffees’ last ten games. Everton have thanked Richarlison for his service and commitment. Richarlison’s confirmation takes Spurs’ summer spending up to £85m. He joins £25m man Yves Bissouma and free transfers Ivan Perisic and Fraser Forster. But Conte’s spending spree isn’t set to end at Richarlison. Spurs are keen on signing Middlesbrough ace Djed Spence. The North London club have been locked in negotiations with Boro for weeks. Villarreal’s ace Pervis Estupinan is also being tracked and the loans of Serie A duo Dejan Kulusevski and Cristian Romero need to be turned into permanent transfers. Meanwhile, Richarlison would not get into Arsenal’s starting XI, claims their former midfielder Jack Wilshere. Richarlison has been acquired to bolster Spurs’ already strong attack, but Wilshere is nonplussed at his rivals’ swoop. Appearing on talkSPORT, the 30-year-old said: “I think he improves the squad, definitely… he gives them something different. “I wouldn’t say I’m gutted. “He’s 25, so not young. There comes a point where you’re going to have to turn that potential into something but to be fair if any one can do it, it’s Antonio Conte. “I wouldn’t say I’m devastated as an Arsenal fan but he could be one to watch, he could be really good.” Further quizzed about whether he’d have the Brazilian at the Emirates, Wilshere added: “Yeah but I don’t think he gets in the XI. “He’d definitely challenge for it and be a good part of the squad but I don’t think he gets in the XI.” With excitement building around the North Londoners, Wilshere was asked how he’d respond if they were to win the league. The former England ace replied: “I’m moving to Australia if that ever happens!” Wilshere is without a club, having spent the second half of last season on loan at Aarhus in Denmark. He is still on the lookout for a new team, but could hang up his boots to begin a coaching career if the right playing opportunity doesn’t come up. Wilshere has reportedly held talks with Arsenal regarding their vacant Under-23 and Under-18 head coaching positions. The Gunners need to fill both positions after Kevin Betsy and Dan Micciche left to join Crawley Town in League Two.  — The Sun.