The Herald Charles Mabika-Correspondent PHEW! For the past two weeks, I have been inundated with callers from Mbare, Mufakose and many other parts in and outside the country, with some of them “having a go at me” on why I left out some legendary names from my “Finest XI” football squads from these two high-density suburbs. Well, I did say this was going to be a “painful” selection, didn’t I? And that’s exactly the same with this week’s Highfield Finest XI since 1980 because great players who grew up in “Fio” like Emmanuel “Shumba” Nyahuma, dribbling wizard Shadreck ‘’Waga Waga’’ Dzvairo, Magarika “Maga Dog” Dzvairo, Charles Mapila, Rabson “Sarafina” Mchichwa, Sunday Masauso, Nigel Munyati, Peter “Petso” Mangove, Arthur “Tuts” Tutani, Francis ‘’Gazza’’ Jeyimani (Black Aces); Prince “Pipi” Kadewere (Monomotapa) and his younger brother Prosper “Pulo” Kadewere (Sporting Lions and Zimbabwe Under-20); Clive Kawinga, Alan Mapila, Frank “Tollgate” Makarati (Dynamos); Gary Mashoko, Ali Sadiki (CAPS United) and many more could have made it into the final list but I will (like the past two weeks) accommodate only 11: 1 — David Mandigora (Midfielder): The 1980 Soccer Star of the Year. This late Trojan horse was undoubtedly one of the finest midfielders ever seen on our fields. Blessed with stamina, supportive pedigree and great crossing ability, “Yogi” always gave 110% effort for club and country. Will always be remembered for his humbleness on and off the pitch. He also matured into a shrewd and brilliant coach for his beloved club Dynamos whom he joined at the tender age of 12 and never looked back. Ranked as the second most successful coach at the Glamour Boys after another legend, Sunday “Mhofu” Chidzambwa, Mandigora won the league title in 2007 and also took the side to the African Champions League semi-finals where they were knocked out by Cameroonian giants Coton Sport Garou. 2 — Tapuwa Kapini (Goalkeeper): An inimitable shot-stopper who recently became Zimbabwe’s longest-serving footballer in the South African scene. He also featured for various clubs in Zimbabwe and the Warriors. His eccentricity in-between the goalposts and the penalty box earned him the nickname “Campos” after Mexican great and former international, Jorge Campos. Kapini was also a fine distributor of the ball and once scored direct from a goal-kick in a local league match for Highlanders against CAPS United at the National Sports Stadium in 2004. 3. — Denver Mukamba (Midfielder): Arguably the most skillful player in our top-flight league today where he is the foreperson of the Ngezi Platinum FC mine shaft on the pitch. “Mundikumbuke” is a meticulous and tricky dribbler who can do almost anything with the ball at his feet. He can create and score stupendous goals. Sadly, his setback is his “bad boy’’ attitude at times which has prevented him from parading his mercurial repertoire on more lucrative pastures outside the county. On his day, he can win a game single-handedly and was crowned the Soccer Star of the Year in 2012 when he was turning out for DeMbare. 4. —Nesbert Saruchera (Defender): A no-nonsense centre-back, “Yabo”, who grew up in the Zororo area of Highfield, took no prisoners during his heyday at army side Black Rhinos after graduating from the Black Aces juniors. A versatile player who could also play as a sweeper in any coach’s setup, he was unlucky to have his career cut short by a nasty knee injury in the mid-90s when he was skipper of the national Under-23 side, with many already tipping him for the same post in the Warriors side. 5. — Shacky Tauro (Forward): Popularly known as “Mr Goals”, this late predator simply hated goalkeepers because they got in his way! All he wanted to do was to keep pulling the trigger all day long and hit the back of the net. A mean gunslinger who could score from any position in and just outside the box, he is widely regarded as the finest player ever produced at CAPS United whom he joined at the age of 12. Tauro was just devastating in front of goal and is ranked in the Top 5 of Zimbabwe’s deadliest finishers ever. Also rose to be a prominent coach at his beloved Green Machine, Blackpool and the Mighty Warriors. 6. — Ashley Rambanapasi (Midfielder): Combative tackler and defensive workhorse who earned the nickname “Compressor” because of those attributes. One of a few players to play for both city rivals CAPS United and Dynamos.  Also featured for the Warriors. A hard grafter who also lavished joining in the attack and scoring unexpected goals from his supportive position. Like Saruchera, he suffered a career-ending knee injury. He had attracted interest from teams in Cyprus and Switzerland but that injury halted his quest for more fame and fortune in 2009. 7. — Mugove Munyorovi (Forward): Nicknamed “Sugar” because of his “sweet” moves down the left wing at Black Aces, Black Rhinos, Dynamos and Arcadia United. Loaded with plenty of guile and shooting accuracy with both legs, he was a marvel to watch when he cut inside from his favourite flank, waltzing past a maze of defenders before laying on “sitters” for his fellow forwards or having a crack himself. 8. — Oliver Kateya (Defender): A tireless player who started out as a striker before settling down as an exceptional left-wing back who is still rated as the finest crosser of the ball ever seen in the land. Speedy and breathtaking during the early part of his career and getting the nickname “Flying Saucer”, he later became known as “The Monitoring Force” because of his amazing crossing heroics and is still famous for the two meteoric deliveries to Mandigora and Tauro — which resulted in both of them scoring — against Zambia in the first Independence Cup final at Rufao in 1980 when the Warriors triumphed 2-1. 9. — George Mandizvidza (Goalkeeper): Possessed one of the safest pair of hands during his era. The way he jealously guarded his fortress earned him the nickname “Mupurisa”. This late player was also gifted with sound positioning in the penalty box and had a 70 percent-plus rating ball distribution ability. Featured for CAPS United, Black Mambas, Dynamos, Arcadia United, Motor Action and the Warriors during his illustrious career. 10. — Silver Chigwenje (Defender): A gangling rearguard supervisor who was known as “Bhonzo”, led by example and hated losing. Was the skipper of the Green Machine’s juggernaut of 1996 which captured the League title and three other knockout trophies. Quiet and unassuming, he was a bull terrier at the heart of his side’s defence and was superior in aerial tussles. 11. — Tino Kadewere (Forward): A remarkable protégé of his late father, Onias, who tutored him when he (Tino) was still a toddler. Onias was then featuring for the now-defunct Black Aces. Tino a.k.a. Monya, has had a brilliant breakthrough at French giants FC Lyon and could be moving to a bigger and more lucrative league soon. From his teenage years at Prince Edward High School, the tall forward had already packed in his armory with plenty of bullets and explosives, “destroying” defences and ‘keepers at schools’ tournaments. Is a leading figure in the Warriors squad and many pundits have already earmarked him to take over the talisman’s role from retired and former skipper, Knowledge Musona, in the not-too-distant-future. Comes from a footballing family where his afore-mentioned dad and elder brothers, Prince (late) and Prosper, all featured prominently in the game at top level. Watch out for my Glen Norah Finest XI (since 1980) next week.