The Herald Shepherd Chimururi Interactive Youth Correspondent Lack of clear cut e-learning policies by schools is negatively affecting students and hampering the migration to blended learning that is at the heart of the Government’s National e-Learning Strategy for schools in Zimbabwe which is earmarked to run until 2025. E-learning policies and procedures are important because they help schools to establish rules and procedures and create standards for enhancing the quality of school education. Every organisation need internal policies and procedures to make sure things flow smoothly. A civilised learning environment demands that students should have a clear understanding of what teachers expects from them and vice versa. Lerato Gamuchirai, a Form 1 pupil at Christ Ministries High said e-learning policies are a critical tool without which schools will lack the direction and commitment necessary to acquire, and safely utilise the ICT gadgets. “Rules are needed to guide teachers as some of the online lessons during Covid-19 lock down were really bad. “When I was in Grade Seven some would deliver their lessons with a lot of background noise. Sometimes you would hear people selling floor polish in the background, sometimes kids would be yelling.” An e-learning policy has elements which are broad yet necessary. Without the guidelines the teachers will have no standards everyone doing their own way with students working without code of conduct. An e-learning policy includes guidelines on student privacy, quality of digital content and production steps, digital presentation and dressing, assignment submission and feedback, e-mail and online discussion, getting technical help and office time, software standards and formats, teacher and student code of conduct, intellectual property rights and plagiarism, supervision and monitoring, etc. An e-learning programme, though meant to be a solution to pandemics and shortage of books, will soon or later become a problem in itself if it is implemented without stipulated guidelines. Clemence Mushanga, an upper six sciences student at Bright Stars College, said an e-learning policy must include requirements on gadgets. “The policy must include guidelines on what type of hardware to buy, software to install, and internet connectivity speed needed for e-learning. “It is hard to first buy a laptop then to be told it is not compatible. “A school must first assess its needs and sustainability of running a chosen learning management system before ordering students to buy laptops. Affordability by parents must also be considered.” Mushanga said, “Schools must list down what they need first. Of utmost importance is a digital library, communication tools for messaging and bulletin boards, collaboration tools like online forums, electronic diaries and calendars, utility tools to create content and finally assessment and marking.” Without a policy, the school end up buying anything called an gadgets without considering the technical specifications and benefits to students.” Foster Roberts, the vice chair of E-learning and Computer education Trust of Zimbabwe (ECET), emphasised that school must have deliberate policies on production of digital content. “It is sad to note that most schools have no intention to develop and produce their own content, but are just bent on using what they download on thr internet. “This calls for robust comprehensive upskilling of teachers with diverse 21st century skills necessary for digital production of content like graphic designing, editing and designing. “Our research also shows that development of prerequisite skills like basic computer literacy is vital. All pupils must be equipped with sufficient knowledge and baseline skills for the effective use of ICT. Monitoring and supervision is another key factor. Unfortunately presently most leadership in schools that includes the head, deputy head, head of department and teacher in charge, senior master/lady, do not understand the fundamentals of e-learning. “In fact a large chunk of them are computer illiterate. “That is making it very hard for them to cooperate and support the teachers and pupils. Once the teachers find out that the head suffers from technophobia, then they relax knowing no one will be there to supervise and hold them accountable,” said Roberts.