The Herald Crime Reporter THREE suspected housebreakers have been arrested in Harare in separate incidents on allegations of breaking into several houses in and around the city before stealing property, electrical gadgets and vehicle parts. Criminal Investigations Department (CID) acting spokesperson, Detective Assistant Inspector Rachel Muteweri, confirmed the arrests. She said detectives at Southerton Police Station first arrested Stanley Chifuka Kandaya (37) of 8619 Dzivaresekwa, Harare, and Tichaona Soda (45) of 16397 Unit M, Seke in Chitungwiza, following a surge in unlawful entry and theft cases in the Dzivaresekwa and Kuwadzana areas. “The two are now facing five counts of unlawful entry and theft. During the period extending from May to June 2022, the two wreaked havoc around Kuwadzana and Dzivarasekwa areas. “They would forcibly open locked doors, gain entry, ransack the house before stealing household property and other valuables. They would also target tuck shops,” she said. In one of the cases which occurred in June, the suspects broke into a tuck shop and stole various groceries. On June 12, using the same modus operandi, they forced open the administration office door and gained entry into the office at a school in Chitungwiza. They ransacked the office before getting away with three laptops, a defy refrigerator and other valuables. Luck ran out for the two on July 10 when detectives were tipped that the duo was behind the spate of crimes. “A team of detectives swiftly reacted to the information leading to their arrest. Further investigations resulted in the accused persons accounting for five counts of unlawful entry and theft cases and the subsequent recovery of a 42-inch LG television, two laptops, cell phones, computer accessories, groceries and a defy refrigerator, amongst other items,” said Det Asst Insp Muteweri. In Braeside, Harare, police arrested Isaac Tafadzwa Makande (28) of Epworth for unlawful entry into premises in aggravating circumstances and theft of car parts. The suspect targeted shops selling motor spares and would force open locked doors and steal various car accessories. Various car accessories were recovered following the arrest of the suspect, who has since been taken to Mbare Magistrates Court where he was remanded in custody. “Members of the public are therefore urged to employ target-hardening and target-removal techniques and avoid falling prey to criminals. “The Zimbabwe Republic Police would like to express its utmost gratitude to members of the public for supplying credible information that led to the arrest of the accused persons,” said Det Asst Insp Muteweri.