The Herald Sport Reporter THE first batch of the touring Bangladesh cricket squad is expected in Zimbabwe today ahead of the T20I and ODI series set to be played in Harare starting this weekend. The first batch of the delegation, which included opening batsman Munim Shahriar, left-handed batsman Najmul Hossain Shanto and pacer Hasan Mahmud was scheduled to board the plane last night, in the company of the team’s Logistic Manager Nafees Iqbal and Physio Muzadded Alpha Sany. The media in Bangladesh reported that the rest of the T20 delegation will leave their country today while the ODI squad will join them in Harare later this week. “They will start their journey from Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport to Zimbabwe on a flight at 1:40 am Bangladesh time. “The remaining members of the T20 team will leave for Zimbabwe on the night flight on July 26 (today). And the ODI team members are scheduled to leave the country on a night flight on the 29th (Friday). “Meanwhile, foreign members of the coaching staff will join the team in Zimbabwe directly from their home countries,” reported the Bangladesh Cricket Times. The Bangladesh Cricket Board have since announced their squads for the upcoming white-ball tour of Zimbabwe. T20I skipper Mahmudullah has been rested from the side following his bad patch in the format. Wicketkeeper-batter Nurul Hasan has been made Bangladesh’s T20I captain, but only for the upcoming three-match series. The apex board also decided to rest the senior duo of Mushfiqur Rahim and Shakib Al Hasan, who had earlier taken leave from the entire white-ball tour. Notably, Mahmudullah led Bangladesh in 43 T20Is — the most by any Bangladesh captain in the format — winning 16 and losing 26 games. “We have been discussing our performances in Tests and T20Is, which have not been up to the mark recently. We have made a change in the captaincy. Nurul Hasan will lead the side in Zimbabwe. “We have informed the decision to Mahmudullah in this meeting. We have made several changes in the team and have rested Mushfiqur Rahim and Shakib Al Hasan to try out a few young players,” said Jalal Yunus, BCB’s cricket operations chairman, in a statement. Tamim Iqbal, who recently bid farewell to the shortest format, will continue to lead the ODI side. Bangladesh tour of Zimbabwe will begin with three T20Is on July 30, 31 and August 02, followed by the three ODIs on August 05, 07, and 10. All the matches will be played at Harare Sports Club. The T20I skipper Nurul Hasan said he would push his team to play “fearless cricket” to improve its lagging performance in the game’s shortest format. “We are lagging behind in Tests and T20s compared to one-day internationals. It is important for us to improve,” Nurul said in his first press conference as captain in Dhaka. “For me fearless cricket is important. We will see if we can do this,” he added. “If we remain fearless, chances for things turning positive will be high. When you have fear of failure it will affect you negatively.” Bangladesh Squads for Zimbabwe tour: T20I: Munim Shahriar, Anamul Haque Bijoy, Liton Das, Afif Hossain, Nurul Hasan Sohan(C), Mahedi Hasan, Nasum Ahmed, Taskin Ahmed, Shoriful Islam Mustafizur Rahman, Hasan Mahmud, Mosaddek Hossain, Najmul Hossain Shanto, Mehedy Hasan Miraz, Parvez Hossain Emon ODI: Tamim Iqbal C), Anamul Haque Bijoy, Liton Das, Mushfiqur Rahim, Mahmudullah Riyad, Afif Hossain, Nurul Hasan Sohan, Nasum Ahmed, Taskin Ahmed, Shoriful Islam,Mustafizur Rahman, Hasan Mahmud,Mosaddek Hossain,Najmul Hossain Shanto Mehedy Hasan Miraz, Taijul Islam.