The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter CAPS United have launched an initiative which will see their supporters contributing to the team’s financial coffers. The Green Machine have spent the better part of the first half of the year battling financial instability. As a result, they have lost ground in the race for the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League title. They have endured unending player sit-ins while also losing some of their best assets due to the teething problems at the club. But, all that could be coming to an end after the club engaged their supporters to chip in with monthly contributions towards player remuneration. The team, led by their chief executive Charlie Jones as well as head of marketing and media Raymond Gonte, met the leadership of all the 17 Chapters to sell the idea. And the response was overwhelming, at least in principle, with the representatives welcoming the initiative which, if successfully implemented, could see stability crawling back at Makepekepe again. Fans will contribute to any amount but the standard scale has been set at US$200, US$400 and US$600 per month. In return the supporters will get VIP tickets for all Makepekepe’s home games among other benefits. Jones told The Herald that the initiative has been plucked from other international clubs who are doing well through that. “Basically this is an initiative that we are undertaking as a club. Obviously we follow a lot of international football where some of the clubs out there do that. So this is an idea taken from such clubs. It gives an opportunity to individuals, companies and groups to support the club. As CAPS United, our woes are well-known as they have been affecting us for a while,” said Jones. “So this is an initiative to overcome them on one end and on the other side, it’s just a norm just to support the club this way. “We have three categories of packages in which the supporters can chip in and help. “Those contributions will certainly help the club pay salaries for players so this will be on a monthly basis throughout the season or throughout the year. In return, the contributors will benefit in becoming VIP guests in every home match in addition to other benefits which will come later. At the same time, it gives confidence to the players. “It gives confidence to players and staff to say look the salaries are catered for and things like that. So this is an initiative relatively new in Zimbabwe but certainly we are taking a leaf from what other clubs out there are already thriving on. “Hopefully, it will work and we welcome as many player sponsors as possible. The club is huge, we have over 30 players in our books and the initiative will go a long way in overcoming the woes we have faced over the past few months.” Meanwhile, Makepekepe assistant coach Tonderai Marume believes his charges will summon the same energy levels they carried in their reverse fixture when they play the Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services side Whawha in the return leg at Ascot tomorrow. The Green Machine walloped Whawha 6-0 in their first instalment and they will be hoping to post another positive result tomorrow. “We have a feeling that we can do better than what we have been doing in recent games. Every team in the league is very tough when they are playing at home. But we hope to do well to keep our revival story on,” he said. Marume could not be drawn into commenting on the potential new arrivals at CAPS United but hinted Joel Ngodzo, who was released by Highlanders, this week could be on his way back.