The Herald Arts Reporter With 16 days left to the Miss Culture Zimbabwe beauty pageant, organisers have released the 16 finalists who are battling for the coveted title. The 16 finalists are as follows: from Harare are Alisha Bwanya, Chantel Baison, Mitchell Simeon and Shalom Jack, the Manicaland representative is Tanaka Dumbura, while from Bulawayo there are Patience Gumbo, Tanaka Chiruka, Shamah Mawoko and Ellain Ncube. From Midlands province there are Scholasticah Makoni, Ropafadzo Gura and Natasha Zhuwawu. Mashonaland representatives are Tinashe Dahwa, Priscilla Chitsa and Ruvimbo Rusamhu. Constance Saeti is the only girl from Masvingo. The pageant will be held on July 30 at Casino Marina, Longchen Plaza, Belvedere, Harare, running under the theme, “Celebrating culture, diversity and identity”. It is being hosted by reigning Miss Culture Zimbabwe, Pauline Marere, who also happens to be the licence holder-cum-national director. In an interview, Marere said preparations for the pageant were at an advanced stage with finalists ready for the boot camp. “It is a dream come true,” she said. “I am happy that everything is taking shape after months of preparations.” Marere applied for the licence to host the pageant after noticing that there were a lot of talented girls who lacked exposure and opportunity. “After winning the Miss Culture International as first runners up last year in December, where I was representing Zimbabwe, I was awarded the licence for Miss Culture Zimbabwe,” she said. “I then saw the opportunity to promote and market the beauty of Zimbabwe from all corners through the girls. We have done auditions and I am happy with the selection so far. The girls are ready and have started preparing from grooming to etiquette lessons.” Marere said the winner will represent Zimbabwe in South Africa at the Miss Culture International to be held in September. She said they engaged local designers to dress the models. “It is about culture and to promote this we have a number of designers who we are working with,” said Marere. “The designers will dress the models and it will also be a fashion show. Some of the designers include Debaba designs, Imani, House of lam, Fashion Guru, Epic sets, Chico fashions, Sanz design and Tricia.” Marere said the event will be a red carpet affair and guests were expected to dress according to the theme. “Our guests should wear formal wear with a touch of African print or African traditional clothes,” she said. “For entertainment we will have Andy Muridzo, Gwevedzi Band and we are still concluding with our surprise guest artistes.” The judging panel will include modelling experts from Zimbabwe, South Africa and Botswana. She called for stakeholders to support the initiative. “We are calling for sponsors or partners who would like to advertise their brands with us on Nash TV as we will be streaming the event  live,” she said. “Ticket sale begins next week. We also like to thank those who already have come on board.”