The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE is set to generate in excess of US$500 000 through tourism receipts and related economic activities when the country host the World Boxing Council (WBC) All Africa officials training and grading workshop and the African Boxing Union (ABU) convention in Victoria Falls later this month. The two-day meetings are scheduled to run from July 26. This is the first time that the country has been afforded the opportunity to host the prestigious training workshops for the two boxing organisations. The WBC is ranked as the best sanctioning board in the world and their picking Zimbabwe as the home for this year’s training event has been widely welcomed by stakeholders from different sectors. Fittingly, the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority has partnered the Zimbabwe National Boxing and Wrestling Control Board (ZNBWCB) in the hosting of these two events. And the country is expected to reap huge financial rewards too. ZNBWCB chief executive officer, Lawrence Zimbudzana, said about 106 delegates from 16 countries have already confirmed they will be participating at the capacity-building workshops. “It gives me great pleasure to address this gathering and give an update the state of preparedness pertaining to the hosting the World Boxing Council (WBC) All Africa Officials Training and Grading Workshop and the Africa Boxing Union (ABU) Convention in Victoria Falls at the Kingdom Hotel from 25-27 July 2022 and 26-27 July 2022 respectively. “The hosting of these two events is meant to enhance the technical capacities of boxing officials across the continent and define the governance structure of boxing in Africa for the next five years as well as exploring strategies of modernising and developing boxing at all levels on the African continent,” said Zimbudzana. “There has been a steady increase in the amount of investment our Government continues to put in the subsector. The hosting of these events is also testimony to the Second Republic’s commitment. “Sport tourism is one of the fastest growing sectors in the sport industry with the global sports tourism market share being valued at US$323 420.0 million in 2020, and projected to reach US$1 803 704.0 billion by 2030. The hosting of the two events therefore forms part of our long-term strategy to use combat sport as a vehicle to contribute to socio-economic development by stimulating tourists in the country.  We are anticipating that at least US$500 000 will be generated.” ZTA spokesperson ,Godfrey “Chief” Koti, said the two events have come at an ideal time when his organisation has been preaching the sport tourism gospel. “As the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority, we are pleased to have partnered with the ZNBWCB as we host the world at the magnificent Victoria Falls. “The country is set to benefit a lot and we will make the experience something to cherish for the delegates. “We have been calling upon sporting associations to consider partnering us as we want to market the country using sport as well and the response has been overwhelming,” said Koti. “We are looking forward to a memorable event in Victoria Falls and we also want to make this resort area a hub of sporting activities as we penetrate the sports tourism avenue.” The delegates, who have confirmed their participation at the two events so far are from such countries as South Africa, Botswana, Nigeria, Uganda, Tanzania, Malawi, Namibia, Cameroon, Egypt, Zambia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ghana, Mali, the United States of America, Morocco, Ireland and the hosts Zimbabwe. The organisers are looking at grouping at least 120 delegates. ABU president Houcine Houchi, who is also the WBC vice-president, will preside over both events while renowned WBC experts, Kevin Noone and Daniel Van De Wiele, will facilitate the course. Besides financial benefits from sports tourism, the country’s boxing officials stand to benefit more as the certificates they will get upon successfully completing the two events will give them access to officiating at regional, continental and international competitions. A showcase boxing tournament has also been lined-up by promoter Stalin Mau-Mau on the sidelines of the event where WIBA intercontinental lightweight champion Monalisa Sibanda of Zimbabwe will defend her crown against Uganda’s Small Valente Aciro on July 27. The tournament will feature six bouts.