The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter STAKEHOLDERS yesterday welcomed the hosting of the International Cricket Council Twenty20 World Cup Qualifier B in Zimbabwe as an opportunity for business and overall growth for the game of cricket. The event, which gets underway in Bulawayo today, was launched by President Mnangagwa at Queens Sports Club yesterday. Eight teams, including hosts Zimbabwe, will battle it out this week for the two remaining slots at this year’s ICC T20 World Cup tournament to be hosted by Australia in October. Zimbabwe Cricket Managing Director Givemore Makoni said they were excited to be hosting the event. ZC have successfully hosted tournaments of this magnitude before. “This is the fifth biggest tournament we are hosting in terms of qualifiers in the country and we are excited about that. “We are also excited that the event was officially opened by His Excellency, President of the Republic of Zimbabwe, Cde E.D Mnangagwa, and the opening function went on very well. “The team is in high spirits. It obviously means a lot for us to be hosting a tournament of such a magnitude because it shows the confidence ICC have in us as a capable host,” said Makoni. The countries that are in Zimbabwe for the tournament include Jersey, Hong Kong, Netherlands, Singapore, Papua New Guinea, United States of America and Uganda. Zimbabwe Cricket have taken the event to Bulawayo in their efforts to spread the game around the country after Harare hosted the ICC Women’s World Cup Qualifier in November last year. President Mnangagwa was also the Guest of Honour at the opening ceremony of that tournament. The Zimbabwe cricket team will get the ICC T20 World Cup Qualifier underway today with a match against Singapore at Queens Sports Club. National Association of Primary School Heads president Cynthia Khumalo said the hosting of the tournament was a huge inspiration to her constituency. Primary schools are key stakeholders for sport development in the country. She hailed President Mnangagwa for playing the leading role in support of Zimbabwe hosting such tournaments. “We would like to applaud the Government for the big role they have played in promoting the growth of sport in the country. We are also happy the head of state has always played an active role, which explains why he officiated at the official opening of the T20 World Cup Qualifier. “We also appreciate the work by the domestic cricket authorities in bringing the tournament home. It is really a good opportunity for our pupils to be inspired especially as we host many countries for this tournament. “It augurs well for the growth of our sport, especially in schools, if we continuously have tournaments of this magnitude here. I hope Zimbabwe Cricket will invite primary school children in and around Bulawayo to come and watch the games. “Cricket has been growing slowly as a sport in our schools. Most of our schools are not yet there, which is why we hope tournaments of this stature will help spur on both teachers and pupils. In the future we are looking forward to spreading the game to all corners of the country,” said Khumalo. Zimbabwe Tourism Authority permanent secretary Munesu Munodawafa yesterday said the country stands to reap huge benefits from hosting the tournament. “From the tourism point of view, we are excited to be hosting seven countries for this tournament. We believe that properly marketed sporting events offer Zimbabwe a good opportunity to grow its brand. “It will help us to draw the world to Zimbabwe because all the participating nations will be looking to explore and appreciate the beauty of the country that they are playing in. “It is good for our businesses, it is good for tourism, it is good for our hotels, it is good for our sport and the country at large stands to benefit from the spinoffs from hosting such events here. “It is also in line with the Government’s National Development Strategy 1 where we wish to grow tourism, with sports tourism part of the matrix. “Remember ZTA and Zimbabwe Cricket have a partnership to promote tourism through sport through the ‘Visit Zimbabwe Campaign’ and we are happy to be witnessing this tournament here. “We appeal to the rest of the sporting fraternity to continue to excel on the global stage and also invite other nations to Zimbabwe for events and tournaments of this magnitude,” said Munodawafa.