The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter A MAJOR storm has been hitting Castle Lager Premier Soccer League side ZPC Kariba with players sitting out training for at least a fortnight over unfulfilled commitments by club chiefs, The Herald can reveal. So bad has been the situation at the Kariba-based outfit players were being begged to report for duty each time the team had league matches to play. And they have been so much underwhelming in the field of play with their 15th position on the log corresponding well with their performances. The club, who under normal circumstances should be an epitome of stability given they are owned by a power utility company, have endured their coldest spell in the league since their elevation from the First Division in 2014. They have picked just 18 points from 19 outings and they are swimming in the red-zone. Although they changed coaches some seven weeks ago, bringing in veteran Rodwell Dhlakama for Godfrey Tamirepi, things have remained generally tough for them. And it has emerged the players have been training and playing under protest over the months before they decided to completely down tools two weeks ago. The club have been owing their players something in the region of $300 000 each in sign-on fees since January this year. With rising inflation recorded between that time and now, the players have been challenging the team to own up and also review their salaries which averages US$50 per month. ZPC Kariba, according to the players, have also been taking “too long” to settle winning bonuses which has remained at around $12 000 per game for months. Things got to a head after the team’s 1-0 triumph over CAPS United at the National Sports Stadium two weeks ago to which the players decided to take the protest full throttle. By the time they lost 0-1 to Yadah at home last weekend, the players had not reported for training and it was telling from the way they played in the entire game. However, the club settled the sign-on bills late on Wednesday amid renewed optimism the team can rise again starting with their match against Triangle at Gibbo on Sunday. ZPC Kariba spokesperson, Sylvester Mushininga, tried to pour cold water on the development just moments after the sign-on fees had reflected in the players’ bank accounts on Wednesday night. “The ZPC Kariba Football Club players have been committed to their training programmes and the issue of their sign-on fees has since been resolved. The football club’s administration is committed to ensuring that all contracts are fulfilled and that remuneration are paid in time,” he said. After the payment of their sign-on fees, the players were back in training yesterday preparing for their tie against Triangle as they aim to get their season back on track. The club, said Mushininga, have taken aboard former Dynamos and Black Rhinos midfielder Kudzanai Dhemere as they seek to strengthen their supply line. They have also co-opted Fanuel Shoko from their sister team ZPC Hwange with one of the local league’s best midfielders Wellington Taderera reported to be on his way as well. Taderera has fallen out of favour at Ngezi Platinum since Benjani Mwaruwaru took charge of the team three months ago. The highly-rated player, who was on the 2019 Soccer Stars of the Year calendar, was one of the stand-out players during Dhlakama’s time at Ngezi Platinum. And he will be looking at reviving his career under the same gaffer in the resort town.