The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter FORMER Zimbabwe youth international Clive Rupiya is likely to become the latest Harare City player to leave the struggling municipality club who are currently embroiled in a battle for survival in the Castle Lager Premiership. Rupiya has reportedly requested to be released, on the back of boiling frustrations. The Sunshine Boys have lost more than half a dozen players in the last few months and the situation is troubling coach Taurai Mangwiro. The team was left severely weakened with the departure of key players such as Emmanuel Mandiranga, Collin Mujuru, Tatenda Tavengwa, Tatenda Tumba, Marshall Machazane, Ben Musaka and William Manondo, who is the current league’s top scorer with new club CAPS United. Manondo was joined at CAPS United by Machazane, Mandiranga and Musaka while Tavengwa spent less than five months at the Green Machine before crossing the border to South Africa. Their former talisman Tumba, who had made a rebound from a frustrating stay at CAPS United earlier this year, has relocated to the United Kingdom with his family. Harare City have not replaced most of the players and are set to promote three players from their development side. “We have lost a number of our senior players in the last few months and it’s quite worrying,” said Mangwiro. “More senior players are expressing a desire to leave the club. I really don’t know what the matter is but I think it has to do with issues that were outstanding before I came here. Right now I know of Clive Rupiya; he has indicated he wants to move. “Now the squad that I thought would serve us well, the results haven’t come as expected. But we hope that those that are going to remain will give it their best. “I hope the guys will work hard to steer the team to safety. We have also elevated three players from our development side and we are working on bringing one senior guy, a striker,” said Mangwiro. The Sunshine Boys host FC Platinum at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow. They have had a particularly disappointing season and are strongly in the relegation mix, with 22 points from as many games. Meanwhile, giants Highlanders have promoted three promising players from their development side, Bosso 90. The trio of defender Nigel Ncube (19), midfielder Mason Mushore (20) and striker Daniel Msendami (22) is set to be registered by the Bulawayo giants before the close of the mid-season transfer window. Bosso also announced that 19-year-old forward Mthabisi “Mabobo” Ncube has extended his contract with the club until 2026. Ncube was promoted to the Highlanders first team in 2020 after impressive displays for the club’s Under-17 side. He scored 46 goals in 2018/19 in the ZIFA Bulawayo Juniors League. The latest developments came just a day after the Bulawayo giants had parted ways with ageing midfielder Joel Ngodzo, who has been linked with a return to CAPS United. “The Club can confirm that it has parted ways with Joel “Josta” Ngodzo on mutual terms. We are grateful for the contributions he made towards the club during his stay at Bosso. We wish him well in his new endeavours,” said Bosso in a brief statement. The Bulawayo giants are enjoying a new lease of life under Portuguese coach Baltemar Brito and recently they promoted 16-year-old striker Prince Ndlovu to the first team. They host Tenax at Barbourfields in their next match tomorrow. Fixtures Saturday: ZPC Kariba v Chicken Inn (Nyamhunga, 1pm), Harare City v FC Platinum (NSS), Black Rhinos v Cranborne Bullets (Vengere), Bulawayo City v Herentals (Barbourfields), Whawha v CAPS Utd (Ascot) Sunday: Ngezi Platinum Stars v Triangle (Baobab), Manica Diamonds v Yadah (Vengere), Highlanders v Tenax (Barbourfields), Dynamos v Bulawayo Chiefs (NSS)