The Herald Crime Reporter Police have expressed concern over the rise in murder cases countrywide, with some emanating from instances where mob justice is meted on suspected criminals while other cases result from disputes. Police have since warned citizens against taking the law into their hands. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi said suspects apprehended by the public for various criminal acts should be surrendered to police so that the law takes its course. “The Zimbabwe Republic Police is concerned with murder cases which are continuously occurring in various parts of the country,” he said. “In one of the cases, on July 10, 2022, police in Ruwa arrested Samuel Masiyandima aged 24 and Ishmael Maguje aged 30 who were part of a mob that assaulted Tinashe Mangwende, aged 41, to death at a plot along Shifilder Drive near Goromonzi Turn-off. “The suspects accused Mangwende of breaking into their house at night before stealing a 42-inch television set.” In another case, Tapiwa Moyo (40) was attacked to death by a mob for unlawful entry into premises and stealing. The incident occurred in Norton on July 10. Moyo was accused of breaking into Enara Chikata’s house in Calfa, Katanga, where he stole two cellphones. Police have so far arrested Enara Chikata (40), Prince Layi (29) and Last Chivero (29), in connection with the case. Another suspect, William Hwede (34) was found dead on July 11 near a wholesale shop in Karoi town after he was allegedly assaulted by unknown suspects on allegations of stealing unidentified property at Karoi Hospital. Police recovered a wooden stick and a catapult suspected to have been used to assault the victim at the scene. In another case, Yakani Mpofu (20) died while admitted at a local hospital after he was found with a cut on the stomach, with intestines protruding on July 10, near a bar in Luveve, Bulawayo. The suspects behind the case are yet to be identified. Police in Jotsholo are also investigating a case of murder which occurred on July 11 at Tshongogwe Village where a suspect, Mhlambululi Ndlovu (24), struck his brother Kelvin Ndlovu (40) with a wheelbarrow frame twice on the head after an argument over a hen. The victim fell in a two-metre-deep toilet pit and was taken to a local hospital where he died upon admission. In another case, Ntuweleni Mbedzi (70) died on July 11 after she was hit with a log several times all over her body by her mentally challenged daughter, Polite Mbedzi (51), at Sikweni Village in Beitbridge. In Fort Rixon, police are appealing for information which may lead to the arrest of Oscar Patal (30) in connection with a murder case that occurred at a bar in Shangani on July 11. The suspect allegedly fatally stabbed Themba Nkomazana (28) several times with an okapi knife on the head, neck and chest. The victim had attempted to strike the suspect with a machete.