The Herald Tadious Manyepo and Leonard Ncube THE historic World Boxing Council (WBC) All Africa officials training workshop begins today in Victoria Falls amid high expectations the event will transform the face of the local game. This is the first time the world’s best sanctioning board, WBC, is holding the annual meet in this country and the event has been given even better significance by the fact that it will be followed by the Africa Boxing Union (ABU) seminar. The WBC convention runs up to Wednesday while the ABU seminar opens on the same day and ends on Thursday. By late yesterday, over 110 delegates from around the world had arrived in the resort town for the high-level events. And the Zimbabwe National Boxing and Wrestling Control Board chief executive officer Lawrence Zimbudzana said boxing will never be the same again in this country. “As the ZNBWCB, we are very much delighted to be hosting these prestigious workshops,” Zimbudzana said. “As I have said earlier, we are looking at generating over half-a-million United States dollars from tourism receipts and related economic activities. “We have received over 110 delegates so far and we may receive even more tomorrow morning (today). “We are very excited and we are looking forward to a fruitful week that we are very much sure will leave our boxing in a very good state. “The who is who of boxing will be there and the technical as well as administrative people in Zimbabwean boxing are all here. “This sport has a huge potential and we are starting to unlock the potential through events like these.” The WBC is ranked as the best sanctioning board in the world and their picking of Zimbabwe as the home for this year’s training event has been widely welcomed by the stakeholders from different sectors. The Zimbabwe Tourism Authority has also partnered the Zimbabwe National Boxing and Wrestling Control Board (ZNBWCB) in the hosting of these two events. The delegates attending the workshops are from South Africa, Botswana, Nigeria, Uganda, Tanzania, Malawi, Namibia, Cameron, Egypt, Zambia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ghana, Mali, United States of America, Morocco, Ireland and the hosts. ABU president Houcine Houchi, who is also the WBC vice-president who arrived in the country on Friday last week, will preside over both events while renowned WBC experts, Kevin Noone and Daniel Van De Wiele, will facilitate the workshop. The events will be officially opened on Wednesday by a yet to be revealed high-ranking Government official. Besides financial benefits from sports tourism, the country’s boxing officials stand to benefit more as the certificates they will get upon successfully completing the two events will give them access to officiating at regional, continental and international competitions. A showcase boxing tournament has also been lined-up by promoter Stalin Mau-Mau on the side-lines of the event where WIBA inter-continental lightweight champion Monalisa Sibanda will defend her crown against Uganda’s Small Valente Aciro on July 27. The tournament will feature six bouts. Both Sibanda and Aciro, who arrived in Victoria Falls yesterday, will attend the events. Meanwhile, the World Boxing Council (WBC) vice-president and Africa Boxing Union (ABU) president, Houchi, and his vice Peter Ngathane yesterday visited the Victoria Falls Boxing Academy where they pledged an assortment of equipment for the facility. They were accompanied by two WBC facilitators Noone and van de Wiele, who arrived on Saturday, Zimbabwe National Boxing and Wrestling Control Board (ZNBWCB) chief executive Zimbudzana and Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation director Eugenia Chidakwa and others. Ngathane and the two facilitators arrived in Victoria Falls on Saturday ahead of the WBC All-Africa Officials Training and Grading Workshop and ABU convention which starts today. The Victoria Falls Boxing Academy was opened in 2019 by local boxing coach Tobius Muposiwa with the help of some local businesspersons and individuals, with the aim of training boxers, host tourneys and promote sport in the resort city. Houchi, who arrived in Victoria Falls on Friday, pledged the materials to Victoria Falls-based Sports and Recreation Commission board member Gail van Jaarsveldt who welcomed the donation as a shot in the arm for the academy and sport in general. After the visit to the academy, Houchi and his delegation toured the mighty Victoria Falls to have a feel of the resort city’s natural wonder. “We visited the gym and it’s a very nice place. Yes, I promised to send them equipment but mostly materials like gloves, shorts and T-shirts and we will do so for Harare as well. This is a contribution from ABU and all we want now is to know their sizes,” said Houchi. He said all preparations are in place for the proceedings this morning. The programme will start with a whole day seminar for judges today followed by another full day seminar of referees tomorrow, according to Zimbudzana, who also was happy with preparations, saying they are ready to start the proceedings. Zimbudzana welcomed the gesture saying it will go a long way in developing the sport and the boxers themselves. “This morning we had an opportunity to visit the Victoria Falls Boxing Academy where a lot of work is happening in terms of social development and taking care of a number of kids by paying school fees for them besides other activities. “As a gesture we went with the president of ABU so that they appreciate the Academy and in return they pledged an assortment of materials for the academy. This is something that we are proud of as a country and organisation that we have a centre that is providing psycho social support to children,” said Zimbudzana. He said the Victoria Falls Boxing Academy concept is an initiative that can be replicated in other parts of the country. The WBC training will run from today to Wednesday while the ABU convention will be held on Tuesday and Wednesday at Kingdom Hotel. Houchi will preside over both proceedings. As of yesterday, more than 120 foreign delegates had confirmed their participation and a majority were expected to arrive by end on the day. The event is a rare opportunity for sports tourism and will help tell the Zimbabwe story to the outside world, as well position the country through sports tourism. The Government is trying to promote sports tourism in the country as sport is considered a cross cutting issue as a vehicle to achieve socio-economic goals in line with the National Development Strategy 1. It is also an opportunity for local boxers and officials to get international recognition as there will be a boxing tournament pitting amateur bouts and at least seven professional fights on the sidelines.