The Herald LONDON. — Tyson Fury has yet to inform the WBC of his plans for their heavyweight boxing title after teasing retirement last month. The Gypsy King (33) seemingly brought the curtain down his career after his brutal sixth-round KO of Dillian Whyte at Wembley. But the former unified heavyweight champion has yet to tell the World Boxing Council whether or not he’ll stay true to his word and hang up his gloves. WBC chief Mauricio Sulaiman told The Daily Star he “plans to leave Fury to recover with his family in the coming weeks” before discussing his future with him in person. A blockbuster undisputed title fight with the winner of Anthony Joshua’s high-stakes rematch with Oleksandr Usyk is in the offing for the undefeated Fury. But fighting for the undisputed heavyweight title isn’t something that whets the appetite of the Wythenshawe warrior. He told talkSPORT: “I’ve already been the undisputed champion. I’ve won every single belt there is to win. “I’ve got nothing more to do, I am out, fully retired. Done. “(Fighting Usyk) is never gonna (sic) happen because I’m retired, but let’s just say I’d punch him round the ring. “Because he’s a middleweight, blown up. “I am retired so what I wanna do is chill out with my family and enjoy the rest of my life. “Who knows what the future holds? “But as of yet, I’m just enjoying myself and I’m gonna grow my hair back I think! “I’ve got school runs with the kids, I’ve got my bin trips to the tip, washing cars down, haircuts, shaves, hoovering, cleaning up. “The normal day-to-day stuff at home with the kids, family and wife. Weekends, I look forward to my weekends, I train all week. “That’s it really, just enjoy life one day at a time.” Fury plans to scratch his competitive itch by taking part in exhibition bouts. He said: “This is the end. I owed the fans one farewell fight tonight. I’m going out on a high. “If I fight again, it’ll be exhibition fights only, wrestling matches and stuff like that. “Entertaining, and stuff that isn’t nerve- wrecking and doesn’t keep you up at night and get you in severe injuries.”— The Sun