The Herald Mukudzei Chingwere
Herald Reporter
Zimbabwe Defence Forces’ training has been commended after Major Winnet Zharare was honoured by the United Nations for her efforts to integrate gender perspectives into peacekeeping activities. Major Zharare, the recipient of the 2021 UN military gender advocate of the year award, returned home yesterday after her efforts won the commendation of UN Secretary-General António Guterres. On arrival at the Robert Gabriel Mugabe International Airport, the military officer commended Government for facilitating her service in the UN mission. “I am happy that I have represented Zimbabwe well in South Sudan,” she said. “My advice to my colleagues is that they should work hard every day. Whenever they are tasked they should put all their heart and time in whatever they will be doing. “To the Government of Zimbabwe, and to the Zimbabwe Defence Forces at large, I am grateful and I would like to thank them for facilitating my deployment in South Sudan. “Most people in the ZDF endeavour to be deployed outside, but some do not get that opportunity, but for me they awarded me that opportunity so I am so grateful and I feel greatly honoured.” Colleagues from the ZDF who were on hand to welcome her at the airport said her exploits were a testimony of the top of the range training they receive. Major Zharare’s parents also praised her, saying she always wanted to be a soldier even when she was a young girl. Zimbabwean soldiers are renowned for their exceptional work ethic, focus, attention to detail, discipline and highly efficiency whenever they are deployed to serve. The promotion of gender equality is at the core of the country’s processes and likewise the ZDF is also a champion of equal access to opportunities available to women and their male counterparts. In his message after Major Zharare was honoured, UN Secretary General Guterres said the Zimbabwean was “a role model and a trailblazer.” He said: “Through her service, she has demonstrated the invaluable role that women play in building trust, advocating for change and forging peace. “Her example shows how we will all gain with more women at the decision-making table, and gender parity in peace operations.”