The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter HARARE giants Dynamos ended the turmoil in their camp yesterday after they reversed the decision to suspend head coach Tonderai Ndiraya. Ndiraya was barred from reporting for duty last week over unspecified allegations, sending the Glamour Boys’ preparations for the match against Herentals, set for tomorrow at the National Sports Stadium, into a tailspin. There has been uncertainty over the coach’s fate as Ndiraya’s assistants Naison Muchekela and Gift Muzadzi took charge of the training sessions during the week. The decision by the club’s leadership to suspend the coach, when the team had been getting the results, did not go down well with some of the club’s fans. But sanity prevailed and the club announced yesterday, through their spokesperson Tinashe Farawo, that Ndiraya had been reinstated with immediate effect, after the sticky issues were ironed out during a hearing on Thursday. “Following the suspension of our head coach – Tonderai Ndiraya on 21 May 2022 pending internal disciplinary procedures, the club wish to advise all its stakeholders on the following developments: “1. In line with principles of natural justice, the coach appeared before a disciplinary committee on Thursday 26 May 2022, to answer to allegations bordering around non-compliance with work standards, agreed practices, procedures and agreements. “2. Resultantly, the facts surrounding the alleged misconduct were established and the club has taken a prompt, fair and firm corrective action against the coach. “3. In the premises, the head coach’s suspension from work has been lifted and as such he resumes his full duties with immediate effect. “4. Further, the club refutes and distances itself from a plethora of false allegations levelled against our head coach which have been circulating in the public domain attacking his moral probity and rectitude. “5. Meanwhile, its shoulders to the wheel for all the players, technical team and club management as we focus on achieving our set targets for 2022 season. Even the darkest night will end, and the sun will rise,. Ndiraya is now expected to sit on the bench tomorrow when they face Herentals. The Glamour Boys have had to confront a good deal of off-field challenges after they were also handed a fine by the PSL Disciplinary Committee for the disruptions that rocked their game against Bulawayo Chiefs in March. The giants received fresh summons yesterday for the violence and acts of hooliganism that led to the abandonment of their last league match against Highlanders while trailing 0-1. However, Dynamos vice-captain Godknows Murwira said the Harare giants are aiming to put the disturbances behind them target points against The Students. Before the Bosso game, DeMbare had been on a nine-match unbeaten streak, thanks largely to their defence that had kept eight clean sheets in 12 outings. But for the first time this season, they conceded in three consecutive games following the 2-1 win over Whawha, the 1-1 draw against Bulawayo City and then against Highlanders. Murwira told the media that they aim to bolster their title campaign, after dropping into second place on their previous outing. The utility man stressed the players were committed to delivering positive results tomorrow, judging by their reaction to the off-field events that hogged the limelight this week. “What happens when you sign a contract, especially here at Dynamos, is that you are told what your duties are and what you are expected to do. “So what happens outside that, there is nothing we can do about it. We are focusing on what we can do, which is playing football and getting the results. “Everyone is showing signs that they want to play Herentals so it’s left to the coaches to select the team and I am sure anyone selected this week is ready to go,” said Murwira. DeMbare winger Bill Antonio is set to miss the match because of a red card suspension. Defenders Tino Muringai and Brendon Mpofu are also still out due to injuries. Herentals, on the other hand, have a full house. They welcomed back goalkeeper Prosper Chigumba, who was the only injury worry in Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva’s squad. Herentals are unbeaten in their last three games and are eighth in the log standings with 22 points, eight behind Dynamos, who are in second place in the championship race. “We look to go into this game with a positive mindset,” said Mutiwekuziva. “Of course, we are currently in the top half but I think it’s not one of the best seasons for us and we look forward to improving continuously. “Dynamos are not an easy team to play against. We would need to up our game. We drew in the last two matches that we played before last week’s break. “But I tell you we had played three high intensity games on the trot, two of them against championship contenders FC Platinum and Chicken Inn, and then Bulawayo Chiefs, who boast of a strong and experienced squad. “So the break was good for us. We needed to rest and recover from the fatigue that had been accumulating in the last few weeks. This Dynamos game is high intensity again, so we have to work hard. We hope the break did not affect the momentum we had built,” said Mutiwekuziva. Fixtures Today ZPC Kariba v Highlanders (Nyamhunga, 1pm), Black Rhinos v Whawha (Sakubva), Harare City v Bulawayo City (NSS), Chicken Inn v Yadah (Luveve), FC Platinum v Triangle (Mandava), Ngezi Platinum Stars v Manica Diamonds (Baobab) Tomorrow Tenax v Cranborne Bullets (Sakubva), Dynamos v Herentals (NSS), Bulawayo Chiefs v CAPS Utd