The Herald FORMER Zimbabwe national cricket team star Dion Ebrahim continues to make big strides in his coaching career following his inclusion in the New Zealand cricket team technical department ahead of their tour of England. The elevation is a notable recognition for the 41-year-old Zimbabwean, who has done remarkably well during his tenure as head coach of the New Zealand first-class cricket side Otago. Ebrahim will join New Zealand head coach Gary Stead, bowling coach Shane Jurgensen and batting coach Luke Ronchi for the Test tour of England. The trio of Dean Brownlie, Graeme Aldridge and Luke Wright have also been added to the coaching roster in a bid to spread the load. It is a good opportunity for Ebrahim, who is still developing as a head coach. He will have a couple of familiar faces along for the trip. Otago duo Hamish Rutherford and Jacob Duffy have been named in the 20-strong squad set to depart this weekend. Stead said the decision to expand the coaching staff reflected the taxing three-month period of touring ahead. The Black Caps will also tour Ireland, Scotland and the Netherlands as well, and responsibilities will be shared. Jurgensen will assume the reins for the tour to Ireland while Stead takes a break. “A key lesson from last year’s Covid-enforced schedules was the importance of keeping not just our players fresh, but also our staff,” Stead said. “We’ve got 14 weeks of non-stop cricket ahead in all three formats and across four countries — along with a T20 World Cup also looming in Australia in October. “We need to ensure our coaches are at the top of their games throughout that period, and able to create an environment in which the team can continue to improve and thrive. ‘‘Hopefully, Dion can bring back to Otago some of the things that he has seen in the international game and, I think from a systems point of view at New Zealand Cricket, it makes a lot of sense.’’ Ebrahim (40) played 29 Tests and 82 one-day internationals as a batsman for Zimbabwe from 2001-05, before moving to New Zealand where he was a Taranaki representative and coach. He became Canterbury Cricket’s performance coach and was also a Kings Twenty20 assistant, before moving to Central Districts where he was Smith’s assistant two years ago. Ebrahim also gained coaching experience working for New Zealand Cricket and Marylebone CC in the UK. — ZimSportLive.