The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter KADOMA will be brought to life this afternoon when the  Odyssey Ironman Zimbabwe sports and fitness festival takes place with several sporting activities lined-up at the Odyssey Lodge. Several athletes, who include the most successful national champion Innocent Choga and three-time national champion Bible Mhizha, are expected to grace the occasion. The Zimbabwe National Federation of Bodybuilding and Fitness have also confirmed the availability of four-time national champion and six-time Ironman champion, Givemore Marume, as well as serial Ironman winner, Zumailer Eusen Mamman, and two-time champion Vincent “Vince Carter” Kandiyero. Ironman 1990 champion, George Munyoro, will also be there. Marume, who is the technical director of the festival, said they are looking forward to connect with the bodybuilding idols both past and current at the festival. “Ironman is definitely going to connect the grandfathers of bodybuilding, fathers of the physique game and the current crop,” said Marume. “We will have time to interact, share notes and above all create everlasting good memories, “ added national organising secretary Quiet Shangai. Bulawayo, as always, will be hoping to have a good representation as they boast of Shyleen Nyathi, Pritchard “Carter” Hoko and Shantel Batch in their team. The three athletes are capable of upsetting anyone on a good day. Midlands, which is known of bringing in few elite athletes, will have South Africa-based Edward Mutero and Enock Mugariwa as Manicaland is expected to bring Knowledge Mudzingwa. From Harare, a number of athletes are expected but their hopes will be on CC Banks, Mark Vassilatos, Joseph Luquembo, Aaron Musarurwa and David Weier who have ben training hard ahead of this event. Mashonaland West, the host province, will be aiming to cause an upset through their ‘‘golden boy’’, Genius Gwara who is the most unpredictable athlete ever to step on the stage. Matabeleland South boast of Darlington Mukanwa while Matabeleland North are likely going to send one Mthandazo. It’s going to be epic. Kadoma is ready, athletes are ready and the local bodybuilding legends are ready. The last time Kadoma hosted a bodybuilding show, Champion Chienderamwano won the bodybuilding division while Regina Jonga won the women’s category.