The Herald LONDON. — New data research shows Arsenal “overachieved” this season despite missing out on an English Premier League football top four spot. Arsenal were unable to clinch Champions League qualification for next season after finishing fifth behind north London rivals Tottenham Hotspur. Mikel Arteta’s side suffered a poor run of form to end the campaign, losing two of their last three matches which included a north London derby thumping. That gave way to the Gunners being dubbed ‘’bottlers’’ by certain pundits and rival fans on social media. But an analysis report from betting app SBK has revealed that was not the case, with Arsenal in fact overachieving. The data showed Arsenal to have exceeded expectations by finishing fifth. That is two places higher than their forecasted finish of seventh based on the pre-season odds for each English Premier League club. Arsenal’s prediction differential of two made them one of the few overachievers of the season, with Arteta bettering his eighth-placed finish across the two previous campaigns. Only West Ham, Brighton, Wolves, Newcastle, Crystal Palace and Brentford exceeded expectations more than the Gunners. It may come as a surprise to some given Arsenal were four points clear of Spurs with just three games to go. But the Emirates club playing at a surprisingly high level at points in the season led some to forget just how far they were off the top-four to begin. Arteta’s side lost three on the bounce to kick off the 2021/22 campaign, but rallied to finish fifth despite having a notably thin squad and the youngest team in the league. Eventually, both inexperience and injuries played a huge role in missing out on Champions League football as the Gunners simply lacked the quality and depth to make the final push towards the end of the season. Meanwhile, Mohamed Elneny has signed a new contract with Arsenal. The midfielder was poised to become a free agent when his deal at the Emirates expires next month. But the Gunners have tied down Elneny to a new deal, though the terms are “subject to the completion of regulatory processes”. Elneny (29) said: “I love this club and I feel like part of this family. “I want to continue at this amazing club and amazing family and I’m very happy and very excited for the future.” Elneny hardly featured under previous manager Unai Emery, which led to a loan to Besiktas in 2019. And he initially struggled under Mikel Arteta as well when the Spaniard replaced Emery. But Elneny has enjoyed a recent resurgence and is now emerged as a key member of the Gunners squad. The Egyptian has shone in the absence of injured Thomas Partey and has been rewarded with a new deal. — The Daily Star.