The Herald Herald Correspondent Augur Investments, in partnership with the City of Harare, yesterday launched the refurbishment of Warren Hills Golf Course. Speaking at the launch, Augur Investments chief executive officer Mr Kenneth Sharpe said the launch marks the start of a big project. Mr Sharpe pleaded with Zimbabweans to give him a chance to develop the country, adding that the facelift will transform Warren Hills Golf Course into a world-class 18-hole golf course with a drive range and a clubhouse. “We are facing economic challenges in the country which has limited our chance to have real development and our plea is for everyone to allow us to develop this country,” Mr Sharpe said. He said engagements with the Environmental Management Agency (EMA) were ongoing and approval had already been granted. Under the arrangement, the existing infrastructure will not be destroyed to start a new one, but will only be modernised. The golf club has been lying idle for several years due to neglect and lack of resources to keep the elite sporting venue running. In a recent statement, City of Harare acting chamber secretary Mr Warren Chiwewe said the golf course project was owned by Sunshine Development, a joint venture company between City of Harare and Augur Investments. The agreement was that City of Harare would provide land while Sunshine Development would contribute US$7 million for the development. Mr Sharpe said they have since engaged Mr Peter Macintosh, a top golf course designer in Africa, to redesign the golf course. “He provided plans for the golf course and we are in the final stages of finalising a contract with him. It will remain an 18-hole golf course as well as a drive range and a clubhouse. “We believe as the top developer in the country, we want to create a place where people can work, play, and shop in the same area,” he said. Mr Sharpe said environmental concerns had been raised around the area but extensive studies had been done by EMA over the last two years, adding he would work with stakeholders to ensure that whatever elements needed to be protected, got the protection.