The Herald George Maponga in Masvingo Masvingo-headquarted indigenous security services company, Absolute Security continues its meteoric growth after spreading its tentacles into neighboring South Africa where its reputation is growing by day. The fledgling company was founded in 2018 by well-known Masvingo businessman Mr Thulani Sibanda(38) who has a police background. The firm has been growing rapidly over the past four years with its workforce now breaching 200 permanent employees. Absolute Security now boasts branches in Harare,Zvishavane,Chiredzi,Beitbridge and Johannesburg in South Africa. According to Mr Sibanda his company was exploiting opportunities engendered by the new dispensation under President Mnangagwa to grow its business portfolio in a friendly economic environment. “Following the advent of the new dispensation our business has been growing exponentially with our main clients being local authorities in both rural and urban areas, big corporates,mines,hotels and even schools.In five years time we see ourselves as one of the biggest indigenous security companies in Zimbabwe,”he said. He lauded Government’s pro-people empowerment policies for stirring the growth of his security companies whose acclaim continues to grow beyond the country’s borders. “We want to help in job creation and also earning the much-needed foreign currency hence we are aiming to continue spreading our wings in other regional countries like Botswana,Mozambique and Zambia.In the next five years we envision ourselves becoming big regional brand in the security services sector and the future looks very bright,”Mr Sibanda said. Like someone with a police background,Mr Sibanda says his motivation is also to fight crime. “Absolute Security is a family business and its birth was also motivated by the increase in crime. We decided to found a company with sophisticated security equipment that can provide services like VVIP protection even to the ordinary citizens. “We also provide cash in transit services,safe keeping storage for valuables ranging from cash, gold, jewellery,”said Mr Sibanda. The company’s growing profile was recently confirmed at the recently held Masvingo region 2021 Megafest awards where it scooped the gold in the Professional Services award category.