The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Kick-boxing Association will hold their first international tournament in over three years by hosting Malawi in the Africa Day Kick-boxing Championship at Prince Edward School this Saturday. The tournament will see eight athletes from Malawi taking on the locals and Zimbabwe Kick-boxing Association president, Tony Kamangira, said he is happy that they will face off with Malawian athletes after a long time without action on the international scene. “The tournament will see eight athletes from each country taking part. We are happy that we have some female athletes who will take part in the same tournament, it has been long since we had international tournaments and by hosting this tournament, it gives the athletes hope and the much-needed exposure in the ring. “The event will be used to prepare for continental African Kick-boxing Championship to be held in South Africa in August. Our preparations are going on well as we have managed to hold two national events since the beginning of the year. We had the Manicaland Provincial and the Masvingo Provincial tournaments which were well attended and they helped us to select the current national team representatives. “We are grateful that Malawi Kick-boxing Association have pledged to work with us and it is good for us. They are a new federation which was formed recently but they have managed to help the sport grow within the region as they are cooperative,” said Kamangira. Kamangira also believes they have a chance against the Malawians who are expected in the country tomorrow. “There is going to be a big challenge but I believe in the athletes that will represent us. We will match-up considering that we have been training hard although we were affected by Covid-19 like any other sport. “There are athletes like Moses Mutungabera, who is a senior and experienced athlete, as well as Nobert Baziyoni, Norman Roben and Kudakwashe Chikwature who have all competed at the highest level,” added Kamangira.