The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo-Senior Arts Reporter Prophetess Beaullah Machiri knew from a tender age that besides priesthood, music was also her calling. The space in the religious ministry was dominated by males, and it was not easy in the beginning, but she defied odds and to date has built her church, House of Prayer for all Nations — “HOPFAN”. Affectionately known as PBM in the Christian circles, Prophetess Machiri is carving a niche in the music industry after launching her debut album, “Thank you Jesus”. The album, which seeks to bring glory to Jesus Christ as it reflects marvellous works and power, has six tracks — “Zvakadaro”, “Pamabvi”, “Todeedza Fire”, “Thank you Jesus”, “I am stronger” and “Madzimai”. Speaking on the sidelines of the album launch in Borrowdale recently, she chronicled her journey and attributed her success to God’s grace. She dedicated the album to the church. “My journey of faith and my calling as a woman of God has not been easy as I have faced various challenges and in it all I saw God’s faithfulness,” said Prophetess Machiri. “I can say that Jesus Christ saved me and showed me the way of true faith. I like singing and I guess it’s part of my prophetic gift. God speaks to me and through me with songs.” Prophetess Machiri said music was her passion and her aim was to take it seriously, and not as a hobby. “From a young age, God called me, but I was not aware,” she said. “I would speak of things that would come to pass, I would help solve mysteries. I then began to be fully used by  God from 2012 where I found myself abandoning my business office for the streets of Kambuzuma, Chitungwiza, Mabvuku, Epworth to preach the gospel. “It was in Epworth that the crowd refused to disperse and every Saturday they would gather to hear the word and in 2014 a church began in Epworth at Muguta Secondary School.” The bubbly preacher and  musician said she was a truth transporter. “I am called to liberate souls through the truth of God. “Well, I guess singing to worship brings no challenge. It’s not for fame, it’s not for money, but for His glory. The album already has videos, so far ‘Pamabvi’ and ‘Todeedza Fire’ are already on social media platforms. “Todeedza’ Fire has become an instant hit as it illuminates the power of Jesus Christ.” Prophetess Machiri said she wrote “Pamabvi”  during a time of mourning. She said her role model was Nigerian gospel artiste Sinach as she adores her energy and steadfastness. “Given a chance, I would like to work with seasoned guitarist and musician Clive Mono Mukundu,” said Prophetess Machiri. “My group is called Prophetic Voices.” Apart from running a thriving ministry with her husband, Prophetess Machiri is also passionate about empowering women, hence the song “Madzimai”.