The Herald LONDON. — Paris Saint-Germain are reportedly leading Bayern Munich in the race to sign Sadio Mane, should the winger decide to leave Liverpool this summer. The Senegalese forward is entering the final year of his contract at Anfield and has been linked with the exit. It was revealed earlier this month that Bayern had emerged as a shock contender to sign the 30-year-old this summer after the player’s agent reportedly held talks with the German club’s sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic over a potential summer move. However, according to German news outlet SportBild, it is PSG that are now frontrunners to land Mane after offering him a big-money contract to join them at the end of the season. PSG are set to lose talisman Kylian Mbappe to Real Madrid this summer and will be looking to fill the void left by the Frenchman. The report from SportBild also claims that PSG’s offer and strong interest in signing him is the reason why Mane is stalling over signing a new Liverpool deal, which is currently believed to be worth around £200 000-a-week. While he continues to be linked away from Liverpool, Mane told reporters after scoring the winner against Aston Villa that he’s “honestly very happy’’ at the Merseyside club. He said: ‘’Yeah, I am happy here, I think when we win trophies I am happier! But I think I am trying to enjoy every moment, trying to assist my team mates and I think the boys make it a lot easier for me. “I am honestly very happy. I am just trying to enjoy every moment and assist my team-mates. Without my team-mates I’m nothing.’’ Manager Jurgen Klopp said after the match: “He is a machine, I told him after the game. Massive player! The mix of technique, desire and physicality… top goal, he’s a fantastic world-class player.’’ Mane — whose form in recent weeks has been outstanding — has scored 12 goals this the turn of the year, netting 22 times in total this season in all competitions. His contribution have helped keep Liverpool’s Quadruple bid alive as they prepare for the final game of the season against Wolves on Sunday before competing in the Champions League final a week later. A move away for Mane would come as a huge blow to Klopp, who could also see Mohamed Salah depart if Liverpool fail to agree a new contract with the Egyptian. Roberto Firmino is also said to be in a similar predicament in regards to his contract. — Mailonline.