The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter CLAIMS by the Isaiah Mupfurutsa-led Dynamos executive that suspended coach Tonderai Ndiraya is insubordinate and arrogant could be false after revelations the team wanted to appoint veteran Rodwell Dhlakama back in February. Ndiraya is currently barred from work after he was suspended following a lengthy meeting at the club offices on Saturday. The Glamour Boys authorities have refused to formally communicate the reasons behind the move although insiders say the gaffer stands accused of being unable to control his dressing room among a litany of other allegations that also include insubordination. DeMbare began life without Ndiraya yesterday and their training venue at Prince Edward School was cordoned off, with team security denying access to members of the media. The executive addressed players before they went through their paces under the watchful eyes of assistant coaches Naison Muchekela and Gift “Umbro” Muzadzi who are holding fort in the absence of Ndiraya. Although the executive could not entertain the media, they are keen to fast-track the inquiry on the operation of the coach with the outcome expected as soon as today. The matter is still touch and go but Ndiraya is unlikely to survive the chop with insiders saying the executive, especially Mupfurutsa, want the gaffer out at all costs. The Herald can reveal the executive wanted to relegate Ndiraya into the role of assistant coach as they pursued, in vain, for the signature of former Ngezi Platinum Stars head coach Dhlakama. The latter was then serving a suspension of his own at Ngezi Platinum before his subsequent resignation. This publication can exclusively reveal that Mupfurutsa personally called Dhlakama and offered him to join Dynamos as the head coach. The move meant Ndiraya would have become Dhlakama’s deputy. But the former Monomotapa and Young Warriors coach, who is now with ZPC Kariba, is said to have declined the offer. A source close to the goings on then said Dhlakama indeed told Mupfurutsa he would be fine coaching Dynamos but the gaffer was not fine with seeing Ndiraya being relegated to an assistant coach at a time he was winning games. “Mupfurutsa (Isaiah) phoned Dhlakama (Rodwell) when it became apparent the coach was not going to continue as the Ngezi Platinum Stars coach back in February. “They wanted him to join Dynamos as the head coach as they were saying the technical team headed by Ndiraya was too lightweight,” said the same source, who asked not to be named. “Dhlakama was honest enough to the chairman (Mupfurutsa). He didn’t want to disrupt a team that was winning games. He was also not comfortable with the arrangement given he is also close friends with Ndiraya. “But Dhlakama indeed said he was interested with a role at Dynamos. He was not cool with taking over Ndiraya’s job. He didn’t like to then see him as the deputy at a time his team was doing well. That is how the deal failed to materialise.” That means the executive always wanted Ndiraya to leave Dynamos as they believe he doesn’t have what it takes to steer the DeMbare ship. Dynamos are second on the log with 30 points to their name after 15 games. They are just a point shy of leaders Chicken Inn ahead of their clash with Herentals at the National Sports Stadium this coming Sunday.