The Herald Kundai Marunya Arts Correspondent The country’s top cultural engagement for young people, Youth Cultural Arts Festival (Yocaf), is back following a few years’ hiatus mostly due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Running from August 3 to 6, the festival will celebrate its 10th anniversary under the theme “It’s Time”. In an interview with Herald Arts, festival director Leeroy Gono said they added more competitions to foster growth among young people in the arts and culture sector. “Yocaf was created to be the most successful performing arts movements on the African continent by exposing and nurturing a crop of world class African talent,” he said. “Exciting programmes are lined up for this year’s fete, with the introduction for the first time of a competition for colleges and universities over and above the high schools’ competition.” Yocaf encompasses various disciplines including theatre, dance, music, poetry, stand-up comedy, symposiums, workshops and exhibitions. Gono said the festival has also lined up top performances. “A lot of exciting performances are lined up, with some of the top theatre shows ever produced in the land along with top local, regional and international acts expected to grace this year’s edition,” he said. One of Zimbabwe’s biggest youth festivals, Yocaf has become a mainstay of development of arts in learning institutions and communities and that has contributed immensely to the growth of the arts industry in the country. With its expansive reach which cuts across both urban and rural communities, the festival has become a beacon for young people’s creative expression and consistent artistic platform. “Our strategic posture is also focusing in training and educational element,” said Gono. “This approach ensures that once the talent is selected, appropriate coaching and mentoring is also offered to prepare them for a brighter future. “The festival will facilitate the convergence of authentic young African talent with global opportunity by providing access to the global stage.” Gono said Yocaf seeks to create an environment that allows authentic talent, global opportunity and socio-economic development to collide on the African continent. “It promotes the growth of the youth element at African level, tapping into the successes of the previous years and expanding that to the African market,” he said. “The greater vision is to unearth African talent and showcase them to the world, bringing an educational element by exposing them to the various aspects of the industry and building a national brand that proudly represents Zimbabwe at the highest standards and achievements.”