The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter CAPS United president Farai Jere yesterday said they were prepared for the legal implications of their decision to fire six senior players yesterday following the industrial action that nearly threatened the fulfilment of their home league game against Cranborne Bullets on Sunday. Jere said they had confidence in the players that would remain at the Premiership football club after the Harare giants took the extreme decision in order to bring sanity to their camp. The players had threatened to boycott the match against Cranborne Bullets at the National Sports Stadium in protest over their unpaid dues. The CAPS United players have accused the Jere-led club executive of continuing to lie to them and not reviewing their salaries in the wake of sky-rocketing prices of goods in the country. “Our salaries are a mockery,” a CAPS player who requested not to be named, told Soccer24. “They keep on lying to us and on top of that, they owe us winning bonuses. Contrary to what was reported today, that we were demanding our April salaries, we simply want our salaries to be reviewed to match the situation in the country. “We have been communicating our grievances since Friday, but they never responded to us, which is why we made the decision we made today,” the player added on Sunday. The match only kicked off 45 minutes late after the players showed up late, bringing the top-flight league into disrepute. The Green Machine are likely to face sanctions from the Premier Soccer League for the chaos. The club reacted by targeting those believed to be the masterminds behind the strike. Jere confirmed they have released Rodwell Chinyengetere, Devon Chafa, Dennis Dauda, Ronald Chitiyo, Clive Augusto and goalkeeper Simba Chinani, as free agents. CAPS United lost the match 0-2 as lawlessness took centre stage on the day. Coach Lloyd Chitembwe was reduced to a mere spectator as the senior players organised the first team after they pitched up late at the venue, and went straight to the dressing room. Some of the senior players even had the audacity of instructing which players to substitute in the second half as lawlessness took centre stage on the day. During yesterday’s crisis meeting between the club’s management and the technical team, it was resolved that those who were fingered as the ring leaders had to go regardless of the value they brought to the club, for the sake of sanity. After the meeting, Jere told The Herald that they will promote some of the juniors to fill in the slots that remained vacant when they registered players during the transfer window early this year. He said they have capable players who can still compete in the league where they are 12 points behind the pacesetters Dynamos. Former FC Platinum and two-time Soccer Star of the Year, Chinyengetere, was fingered as the architect of the strike. He was also accused of inciting other players to push for a US dollar-pegged salary as well as wading into issues that are beyond his jurisdiction as a player. He and Chafa are alleged to have been becoming “big-headed” and fermenting chaos at the club. “The players’ salaries are up to date. It is so disappointing that we only have two games with outstanding winning bonuses, and they decide to strike and threaten to boycott a league game and bring the league into disrepute. “We are releasing them as free agents. We cannot keep players that do not have an interest in the club to remain with the club. “We had about four to five slots we had left, so we will register some of our junior players. “In our meeting with the coaches, they identified players for every position, and we are happy that every position is still covered. Jimmy Dzingai and Marshal Machazane are coming back. Valentine (Musarurwa) has also recovered. We are also covered in the midfield where there is (Enock) Karembo and Tatenda Tavengwa. Life goes on,” said Jere. The club president, who ironically is the PSL chairman, was humiliated by the actions of his players. CAPS United face further sanctions in the form of a fine from the Premier Soccer League for causing a match delay. Chinyengetere arrived at the Harare giants in January from Zvishavane, after the champions did not renew his contract. Chafa reunited with the club after his contract with Ngezi Platinum expired. The 2014 Soccer Star of the Year, Dauda, also re-joined the club in February after he returned home from India where he had a four-month stint in the Indian Premiership. CAPS United considered a number of out of contract players to plug in gaps after they were left severely handicapped by the departure of key players. However, this was bound to have its own challenges, having a top-heavy dressing room of experienced and well-travelled players who have more demanding needs, unlike the up and coming players who still want to prove and make a name for themselves on the pitch. Footballers Union of Zimbabwe president Desmond Maringwa said the developments at CAPS United were unfortunate. “I am not privy to the situation but I have just heard from media reports and it is very unfortunate. There are so many things that need to be looked at before we can really comment. But if the players come to us, then we will be able to engage the club. But we also don’t want a situation where players strike. People should engage in a proper manner, and they know they can still come to us so that we can facilitate an audience with the club. If players are facing any challenges, we can advise accordingly. “In every employment code, there are certain disciplinary procedures. So it all goes down to the individual player’s contract with a club and there should be investigations. I am not privy to the situation but it would be premature to fire the players on Monday after they had engaged on a strike on Sunday. For misconduct, there should be procedures. Sometimes we make harsh and emotional decisions but people should have sober minds when dealing with issues,” said Maringwa.