The Herald MOSCOW. – The culpability for the global consequences of sanctions against Russia, including possible hunger in a number of countries, rests with Western countries who for the sake of their domination are ready to sacrifice the rest of the world, Russian President Vladimir Putin said at a meeting on economic issues yesterday. He noted that a number of countries are already encountering the threats of hunger and if the sanctions against Russia continue, the EU may also encounter consequences which would be difficult to reverse. “The blame for this entirely and completely rests with the elites of the Western countries who for the sake of preserving their global domination are ready to sacrifice the rest of the world,” the Russian leader stated. In turn, Russia is confidently coping with external challenges, he added, thanks both to the responsible macroeconomic policy of recent years and systemic solutions on bolstering the economic sovereignty and technological and food security. “Our production companies are gradually filling in domestic market niches freed up after unscrupulous partners left, including basic goods, industrial and service equipment, construction and agricultural machinery,” the Russian leader noted. The United Nations is exploring ways to bring together Russia and Ukraine “to discuss humanitarian issues, including safe passage for civilians and the movement of humanitarian convoys”, Joyce Msuya, assistant secretary-deneral for Humanitarian Affairs, told a meeting of the UN Security Council yesterday. “In addition to the evacuations from the Azovstal plant and Mariupol, five inter-agency convoys – including essential medical supplies, water, food rations, non-food-items, water repair systems and generators – have provided a lifeline to civilians encircled by fighting, “she said. “This is by no-means enough,” Joyce Msuya added. She urged the parties to the conflict “to continue their facilitation efforts so we can reach many more civilians”. “Our recent efforts to evacuate civilians in the east has shown us that there is good will and common ground for us to build on between the parties,” she stressed. “As requested by the Secretary-General, [Under-Secretary-General] Martin [Griffiths] is exploring ways to bring the parties together to discuss humanitarian issues including safe passage for civilians and the movement of humanitarian convoys,” the assistant secretary-general said. – TASS