The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter SOUTH African Ivan Verster won the inaugural First Capital Bank Zimbabwe Junior Golf Open Championship at Borrowdale Brooke at the weekend. Junior golfers from eight countries — South Africa, Zambia, China, Botswana, Malawi, India, Kenya and the hosts Zimbabwe — took part in the tournament which will now become an annual event. Verster finished on a three-over after the three rounds to beat local favourites Michael Wallace and Keegan Shutt who were second and third respectively. Verster, a member of the Louis Oosthuizen Junior Golf Academy in Mossel Bay, Western Cape, appeared to have given it away with two bogeys and a double-bogey from holes 15 to 17 but managed to keep the two-shot lead. The South African had rounds of 71, 72 and 76 as he was crowned the champion. The First Capital Bank Zimbabwe Junior Golf Open Championship saw over 30 local and international junior golfers taking to the field for the three-day tournament that started on Friday. Verster was happy to have won the tournament and is going back home to take part in other South African tournaments. ‘’I am very excited, I enjoyed my game here at Borrowdale Brooke. The course is awesome and I enjoyed every moment. “The course was playing very well and I managed to fight off the competition from Shutt whom I believe has a bright future. He has played in several tournaments in South Africa where he did well. “I am thankful to the organisers for such a big tournament and hope to return to Zimbabwe again for more tournaments,” said Verster. Wallace recovered to finish second after an impressive last round of 70, having opened the first two rounds with 75 and 76 while World Junior Golf Championship-bound Shutt had a last round to forget as he scored a 78. South African Dylan Melville came fourth as he had the best round of 69 in the second round as India’s Pranay Kupar was fifth. The top 10 was completed by Zimbabwe’s Connor Lashbrook. Japan’s Shijie Li was seventh with South Africa’s Travis Welsh eighth. Tariro November and South Africa’s Dandre de Villiers completed the top 10. Top female golfer Margaret Nyamukondiwa, who has been enjoying a memorable season on local and international circuits, won the girls tournament. The 18-year-old Chapman-based golfer carded a final round of nine-over-par 81 to finish with a 54-hole gross of 238. She finished six shots clear of her national team teammate, Primrose Chikwaya, who carded rounds of 82, 84 and 78 for a total of 244. Nyamukondiwa said she was happy with the win as it has given her confidence ahead of the Zimbabwe Ladies Golf Open Championship which will be held in July. “I am happy for the win but not happy with how I played this week. I feel I can do better and will continue to work hard on my game. “The win is very important for me as I am now looking forward to the Zimbabwe Ladies Golf Open Championship. I am about to go to College soon so winning these tournaments gives me confidence. “There was a tough competition but I managed to come out top and it is making me better,” said Nyamukondiwa. First Capital Bank managing director, Ciaran Mcsharry, said the partnership is the beginning of good things to come and they are happy to be associated with Zimbabwe Junior Golf Association. “We are very excited to be part of this event and we look forward to continue with the relationship,” said Mcsharry. Sports and Recreation Commission chairman, Gerald Mlotshwa, who was the guest of honour at the event, applauded the Zimbabwe Junior Golf Association and First Capital Bank Zimbabwe for investing in grassroots structures in their pursuit to produce future champions. “Tournaments of this nature involving international participants present local junior golfers with the necessary platform to showcase their talent and provide invaluable experience and exposure to the standard they must achieve to reach the world stage,” Mlotshwa said in his remarks. “The development of competitive structures at junior levels in all sports is of vital importance to the development and sustainability of that particular discipline. Junior structures provide the foundation from which the sport grows,” he added.