The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter BULAWAYO Chiefs Ghanaian forward Wilson Mensah celebrated wildly and deservedly so after scoring a contender for the goal of the season against his former club CAPS United in a Castle Lager Premiership football match at Luveve on Sunday. His 27th minute goal would seal a 2-0 victory for the Bulawayo side after Farawo Matare had opened the scoring early in the match. And that was Makepekepe’s fifth defeat on the bounce as the Harare giants continue with their free fall. It was a game that CAPS United were largely expected to lose after almost failing to travel to the City of Kings as they protested against unpaid salaries and wages. So bad is the situation at Makepekepe that the management’s failure to implement good corporate governance is threatening to floor the Harare giants. As it stands, CAPS United, who face Dynamos in the Harare Derby this coming weekend, could as well be on their way to the First Division, if the management fail to resuscitate the situation. But Sunday’s match at Luveve belonged to the 22-year-old Ghanaian Mensah who was keen to prove his mettle against a team that saw no value in him. Mensah unleashed an out-footed low shot after being laid by Perfect Chikwende from outside the box. The ball was written goal all over from the time it left his foot with Makepekepe goalkeeper Tatenda Munditi beaten hands down. Mensah arrived at CAPS United in 2020 and the team saw no value in him, instead reducing him into a training aid before he negotiated for exit in November last year. And for Mensah, Chiefs’ victory was specially sweet for Mensah. “I would like to thank God for the overall performance I put against CAPS United on Sunday. “My teammates are also awesome and I would like to salute them. For me playing against CAPS United was particularly special given it’s my former team. I had a lot to prove against them,” said Mensah. “I arrived at CAPS United in February 2020 and they signed me in March the same year. “Those were the days when Covid-19 was still wreaking havoc in the country and across the world. “Things were never good. Financially, it was a struggle and when football commenced, the team didn’t register me. It was so frustrating given I was under contract. “I then got an agent last year who urged me to move to Bulawayo Chiefs. That’s how I transferred to this team in November last year and I was registered this year. “I was given my starting berth against CAPS United. It was so special and I really needed to show them the stuff I am actually made of. “For me, it was a very big game and then scoring in such a match made it even special.” Mensah’s wonder goal came after another super goal at the same stadium a day earlier. Yadah defender Brian Kadamanja scored a screamer against Chicken Inn in their 1-1 draw on Saturday.