The Herald MIAMI. — Lewis Hamilton has conceded Mercedes have failed to improve their car over the opening five races of the Formula One season after he finished sixth at the Miami Grand Prix on Sunday. The seven-time world champion admitted they were not going forwards with a car that his team principal, Toto Wolff, acknowledged remains off the pace and is a handful to drive and understand, as they consider dropping the design concept next year. Max Verstappen won the race for Red Bull, having passed Charles Leclerc for the lead on lap nine and then delivering a controlled and dominant drive to the flag. It was a consummate display from the Dutchman with Ferrari simply unable to match their pace. In so doing he closed to 19 points behind Leclerc in the championship. The 24-year-old Dutchman took the lead from the pole-sitting Monegasque driver on the opening lap and remained in control throughout a largely processional contest. He came home 3.78 seconds ahead of Leclerc for his third Grand Prix win this year and the 23rd of his career. Carlos Sainz finished third in the second Ferrari after holding off a late charge from Sergio Perez, on fresh tyres in the second Red Bull, and George Russell came home fifth ahead of Mercedes team-mate seven-time champion Hamilton. Mercedes had brought their first major upgrades of the season to Miami and were hopeful at least of making the incremental steps they required in order to extract more from their car, which is still suffering from the violent porpoising on the straights that has prevented them from unlocking its potential after five races. Hamilton did enjoy an improved qualifying performance, taking sixth and he and teammate George Russell finished sixth and fifth respectively in the race. However they remain up to almost a second a lap off the leaders and the hoped for improvement had not been discovered in Miami. “Unfortunately we are at the same speed as we were in the first race,” said Hamilton. “We haven’t improved in these five races but I am hopeful, we have to keep trying and keep working hard.” The British driver, used to vying at the front for wins and the title, has been in an altogether different battle this season. At very best his car is third fastest but Hamilton has often found himself in a midfield battle the likes of which he has rarely had to endure across his entire career. A challenge he is taking on the chin as a long season of a further 18 races lies ahead. “It’s still racing, just a different perspective, a different point of view,” he said. “You want to try and go forward but it is difficult when you are not going forwards. It is what it is but it’s an experience for sure.” Mercedes believe this year’s car still has the potential to come good and that should they solve their issues, it could yet be very quick, although Hamilton has already written off his title chances. In Miami their task was once more writ large with its unpredictable nature exposed. Russell had been quickest in second practice but then said he felt no confidence in the same car during qualifying, managing only 12th place. Wolff admitted that even after five races mastering the car remained a dark art and one that he described in a clearly frustrated fashion.“There is potential in the car and she is fast but we just don’t understand how to unlock the potential.” he said. — The Guardian