The Herald Latwell Nyangu Youth Interactive Writer Ideally, schools should be havens where students and teachers can engage in activities related to learning free of concern about personal safety. As schools and colleges opened this week, it’s my prayer and wish that you keep checking on one another. The pressure that comes with going back to school is such an unbearable experience. Some students are a danger to themselves through things that they do, which not only harm others but it backfires on them. It’s common that some students are at college by default or either they were sent to school or they are pushing time. The bottom line remains that they are at campus. To help each other find their purposes, we have to check on each other. Checking on each other helps detect the burden that others are carrying while it helps to lessen the challenges they are facing on a daily basis. Being at school doesn’t mean everything is going on well, but if you have someone who keeps checking on you, life can be easier. Many a time, it’s not about giving monetary or other materialthings, but about having someone who just checks on you. Volunteering your time , or energy to help others doesn’t just make the world better— it also makes you better. Studies indicate that the very act of giving back to the community boosts your happiness, health, and sense of well-being. We come from different backgrounds and as such we need a brother or sister’s keeper while at learning institutions. Some of the burdens are too heavy for us to carry while other students are victims of poverty or abuse, but having someone who checks on you helps to ease the pain. In reality, today’s students face many different challenges including, depression, lack of tuition fees, food, clothing, money – and that is common in the academic life. With such students are exposed to crime or threats to personal safety at school, suicidal thoughts at school-related activities during the day, or on the way to or from school. A small number of students are victimised at school. Student engagement increases satisfaction, enhances motivation to learn, reduces the sense of isolation, and improves performance at campuses. Interaction and engagement are closely related and even used interchangeably. Student engagement is developed through interaction and fostering interaction is important. As days of isolation turn into weeks, many of us feel increasingly uprooted from our normal lives. These challenging times remind us that it’s never enough to just look after ourselves. We must look after each other too. This is what it means to calm together. University is full of opportunities, but sometimes it can be hard to know which way to look first — or at least know where you’re headed — especially when your peers seem to have everything going on well for them. Human beings are social animals, and friendship means having someone to rely on, listen to, or be there for in times of need. Friends desire what is best for one another and express mutual understanding and compassion. They reach out to each other for emotional support and can make mistakes without fear of judgment. A lack of friends and social contact can bring on the emotional distress of loneliness, a cognitive awareness that affects our brain, produces feelings of sadness, emptiness, isolation, and erodes emotional well-being. While many consider attending university as a way to leverage promising career prospects, university is also a unique opportunity where you can look at yourself and think about how you can benefit and grow personally from the experience. As an introvert, I know it can be hard to differentiate between being alone and feeling lonely. It can also be hard to follow typical advice for making friends –“just join some clubs” is often easier said than done. But, you will have to step out of your comfort zone at some point. Loneliness is a common problem among college students, especially those who are in their first year. In fact, many would say that it is to be expected. But that does not make it any easier to cope with. Not only is it a difficult experience, but many college students do not feel comfortable talking about or even opening up about their feelings. Loneliness is a critical factor on campuses across the country and one of the best ways to cope with college loneliness is to recognize that it is a very real possibility. The first way to get out of it is to get involved on campus. A number of students who report loneliness also have not taken steps to get involved. B Staying busy is one of the best ways to beat the loneliness, but having someone who keeps checking on you, makes life easier. To some students, getting involved can seem overwhelming, especially when they want to focus on their studies. However, research has shown that the more active students are in outside activities, the better their academic results will be. Schools are an ideal place to create safe, supported and connected communities. Student self-harming is one of the most perplexing and challenging behaviours that administrators, teachers, nurses, and counselling staff encounter in their schools. Self-harming behaviour is not a new phenomenon among young people. Mental health and health-care professionals have typically viewed such behaviour as a symptom of an underlying psychological or personality disorder as a possible suicidal gesture suggesting the need for psychiatric hospitalisation or as a symptom of post-traumatic stress disorder caused by sexual or physical abuse. It is the way things happen, but let’s be our brother or sister’s keeper.