The Herald LONDON. — Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola said they are ready to “give their lives” in the final match of the season to retain the English Premier League football title in front of their supporters. City were held to a 2-2 draw at West Ham United in their penultimate game on Sunday, taking them four points clear of Liverpool, who can narrow the gap to one point when they travel to Southampton today. City then host Aston Villa and Liverpool host Wolverhampton Wanderers on the final day of the campaign. “Next week our stadium will be sold out, we will give them our lives and they will give theirs, all together,” Guardiola said. “To do it is an incredible privilege, after many years. “To have our chance with our people, to win one game to be champions. I’m looking forward to it.” While City could be crowned champions tonight if Liverpool lose, Guardiola said he was only focused on his own side. “If they lose or win it depends on us do the most perfect game we possibly can do,” Guardiola said. “Against this Liverpool you cannot win the league four games ago. You have to fight until the end. The big privilege is that it is at home and it is in our hands.” Jack Grealish said City were behind Riyad Mahrez, who missed a late penalty against West Ham. “We would never ever look to blame anyone,” Grealish said. “Riyad is that type of personality and character that will lift his head up and be ready to go again next week.” West Ham’s Jarrod Bowen struck twice in the first half but Jack Grealish pulled one back for City early in the second before Vladimir Coufal scored an own goal. It was the first time City bounced back from two goals down in a top-flight game since 2012. “A great comeback,” Guardiola said. “I think we played a really good game. They (West Ham) are so good in the transitions. “But we spoke at half-time, ‘Don’t give up. Score one goal and we’ll be in the game’. Fortunately, we scored earlier in the second half and afterwards, we had one chance. . . fair result.” City could secure their fourth title in five seasons if they beat Villa. “It won’t be easy, there will be a lot of emotions. We have to train, be calm and arrive fresh. We have one week and will do everything in that game to win the title,” Guardiola said. — Reuters