The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter FOOTBALLERS Union of Zimbabwe president Desmond Maringwa continues to get the thumbs up for his leadership qualities after he was appointed to the CAF organising committee for interclub competitions and management of club licensing system standing committees. The former Dynamos skipper will be among the members of the standing committee that is led by CAF second vice-president Ahmed Yahya, who is also the Mauritania Football Association president. Botswana Football Association president Maclean Letshwiti and Djibrilla Hamidou Hima of Niger are Yahya’s deputies. They will work closely with the Zimbabwean player representative at FIFPro until 2024. The social media was awash with congratulatory messages yesterday. “Congratulations to Mr Desmond Maringwa, FUZ president, on his new appointment to the CAF organising committee for interclub competitions and management of club Licensing system standing committees 2022-2024,” said FUZ in a statement. The CAF appointment is a huge vote of confidence on Zimbabwean football, which has been perceived in bad light over the year’s due to continued chaos. Maringwa’s appointment comes at a time when the country is in the global spotlight following the suspension of ZIFA’s membership at FIFA over third party interference. The 43-year-year-old is a holder of a FIFA Diploma in Football Law, which he attained in Miami, US, last year. He was among an elite group of 26 professionals around the world who graduated from the first intake of this new FIFA Diploma in Football Law. Maringwa’s portfolio has been growing. He also sits in the FIFPro Africa board after he was elected at the FIFPro division Africa congress in Johannesburg, South Africa, in September last year. His new role at CAF will expose him to more challenging tasks, which can only help him develop further in terms of tournament and events organisation. The CAF organising committee for interclub competitions and management of club licensing system standing committees manages the Total CAF Champions League, the Total CAF Confederation Cup, the Total Super Cup as well as the new Women’s Champions League in collaboration with the organising Committee for Women’s Football. The continental football mother body has also developed club licensing as a measure to standardise the game across the continent. According to CAF, the implementation of the club licensing procedure must be respected by all CAF member associations and no clubs are allowed to participate in continental competitions without complying.