The Herald Manchester. — Manchester City are champions! Pep Guardiola’s men seal the title with a sensational three-goal comeback against Aston Villa to pip Liverpool to the Premier League crown, despite the Reds’ win over Wolves Manchester City won the Premier League title on the last day of the season after a sensational three-goal comeback against Aston Villa saw them pip Liverpool to the crown in dramatic fashion. City took a one-point lead into the final game, meaning Liverpool needed to beat Wolves and Pep Guardiola’s side had to slip for the Reds to have a chance at lifting the Premier League title. They looked like blowing their opportunity when Pedro Neto put Wolves ahead after three minutes at Anfield, but Sadio Mane quickly pulled Jurgen Klopp’s men level. Meanwhile Aston Villa, managed by former Liverpool skipper Steven Gerrard, provided his former side with a lifeline when Matty Cash headed in a surprise opener to send shockwaves around the Etihad. City still held the advantage heading into the second half, yet that quickly changed when ex-Reds star Phillipe Coutinho made it 2-0 for Villa, meaning his old club would be on the cusp of glory by taking the lead against Wolves. However, the Manchester club then produced one of the most remarkable Premier League finales of all time, scoring three goals in the space of five crazy minutes and storming to their second consecutive title. Guardiola’s decision to introduce Ilkay Gundogan proved a masterstroke, with the midfielder pulling a goal back for them in the 76th minute. Rodri then slotted home a superb equaliser with a low effort from the edge of the area two minutes later, before Gundogan netted the all-important winner with nine minutes remaining to ensure City were champions again. Liverpool went on to record a 3-1 win over Wolves, scoring twice in the final six minutes through Mohamed Salah and Andrew Robertson, which meant Gundogan’s strike was decisive in the title race. The final whistle eventually sounded at the Etihad and jubilant City fans burst onto the pitch to celebrate their latest final-day heroics, 10 years on from Sergio Aguero’s famous title winner against QPR. It was a pulsating conclusion to what has been a gripping joust between City and Liverpool, the latter missing out on becoming champions despite finishing with a phenomenal tally of 92 points. They won it by a nose, but City’s name has been inscribed on the Premier League trophy for the second straight year. — mailonline.