The Herald Tadious Manyepo–Sports Reporter TWO wins in six matches is never a good statistic. So is nine points out of a possible 18. That is what former Warriors skipper Benjani ‘’The Undertaker’’ Mwaruwari has inked on his CV since his appointment at the helm of Castle Lager Premiership football club Ngezi Platinum Stars two months ago. Not so good but also not bad for someone who is still very much a novice in this field. A man who is in his first professional coaching job at this level. A man who was appointed as an afterthought as the Ngezi Platinum management, after lengthy deliberations, sought to hand him a chance given his prowess during his time as a player. A man who is still very much learning the ropes in these trenches as he seeks to have his name engraved amongst the greats. He is patient as his philosophy suggests. Of course, Chicken Inn lead the Premiership football standings with 30 points to their name and Dynamos are hot on the Bulawayo team’s heels. Triangle, Black Rhinos, Manica Diamonds and Herentals have proved to be tricky and they are the dark horses in this championship race which has already consumed 15 of its 34-round of matches. But FC Platinum, once they get into their usual groove like what they seem to have done now, are always the favorites to win the title.  The Zvishavane team have arguably the most balanced team in the league. They have one of the best goalkeepers on land in Petros Mhari. They are home to probably the best youngster, in terms of consistency and efficiency, in Panashe Mutimbanyoka. Midfielder Yuan Mutudza is probably the best ball carrier in the league. And of course, their coach Norman Mapeza, never mind his temper at times, is arguably one of the finest at this job. But Ngezi Platinum cannot be ruled out given the way they are improving with each game both in composure and purpose, thanks to Mwaruwari’s philosophy. The former Manchester City forward is slowly building an empire which could be very difficult to break in the not-so-distant-future. His methods are evident in the field of play where the team is improving by the day. On joining Ngezi Platinum, Mwaruwari first did one of the things topping his wish-list. He spared a day to attend the team’s feeder club, Ngezi Platinum Under-19 training session.  He immediately made a decision to elevate Tinotenda Musariranwa, Tendai Matindife and Leslie Kashitigu into the senior ranks. The youngsters have been oriented into the team, in game situations, and they seem to have mastered the art so soon. Murasiranwa has already scored two goals since joining the senior side. “That’s how I see things. These youngsters are willing to learn. They give it their all and they are improving every day. They are raw diamonds which I am trying to polish and once I succeed, you will see,” said Mwaruwari. Benjani has changed everything at the team. Highly-rated defender Carlos Mavhurume has been converted into a defensive midfielder. Denver Mukamba is no longer being deployed in the flanks as he now plays the Number 10 role. Wayne Makuva, for long in the shadow of captain Qadr Amini at left-back, is now part of the creative hub. In only his second start under Mwaruwari, Makuva scored a brace, including a masterpiece direct from a corner, as the Mhondoro team beat Tenax 4-0 last weekend. Speedy forward Bruno Mtigo now plays deep in midfield. Ariel Makopa, who made his name at Yadah playing central defence, is now a right-back although at times he partners Polite Moyo at the heart of defence, leaving room at the right for Tapiwa Sibanda. The team has been rotated several times too but it’s rarely showing. “I am trying to build a team which will be very competitive. Of course, I have presided over six games so far and lost once. We have won twice and drawn the remainder of the matches. “But I am very happy with how my players are responding to the system I want them to play…” The players love Mwaruwari too. He is a workaholic who rewards merit and unites the team. “There is definitely no doubt about coach Mwaruwari’s work ethic. He is one man we know you should impress at training to earn a place in the team,” said Mukamba. “Everyone knows that they have to work very hard at training and once you prove your worth, you get picked for the job. “He is also sociable. He tells us a lot about his time in Switzerland, France and England so as to inspire us. The players feel that they should play for him. He has transformed the way we think and the way we see and perceive things.” Ngezi Platinum are not far off the leading pack with just nine points separating them from leaders Chicken Inn.