The Herald FRENCH Ligue 1 football side Olympique Lyon will reportedly listen to offers for favour Warriors striker Tino Kadewere, who has become a fringe player under Peter Bosz. Efficient and efficient last season, Kadewere had more difficulties in 2021-2022 with Olympique Lyonnais under Bosz. Basic man of Rudi Garcia at Olympique Lyonnais last year, Kadewere shone in his first season in French Ligue 1 with a total of 10 goals and 3 assists in all competitions. The 2021-2022 season was to be that of the confirmation of Kadewere, recruited for 12 million euros from Le Havre. But all did not go as planned for the Zimbabwean international, weighed down by injuries and who played only 14 matches in Ligue 1 (one goal). Disappointed by Kadewere’s slowdown, Olympique Lyonnais will not oppose his departure during the next transfer window, according to information from Foot Mercato. In the event of a transfer this summer for Kadewere, OL will, however, find it difficult to recover their costs by recovering the 12 million euros invested two and a half years ago. Kadewere reportedly made the decision to stay and fight for a place in the starting line-up despite Lyon receiving loan offers for the player from fellow French sides Reims, Troyes and Lorient as well as German Bundesliga side Stuttgart during the January transfer window period. Having been frustrated by the continued lack of first-team opportunities, Kadewere now looks set to leave in the next European summer transfer window which begins on June 10. “Several Ligue 1 teams were interested in signing Kadewere in the form of a loan, namely Reims, Lorient and Troyes. “Abroad, other clubs were on the spot, including Stuttgart according to our information. But the door had finally remained closed,” Foot Mercato reports. “This summer, it could well open up as Olympique Lyon expects at least 8 million euros. The player is in favour of leaving in order to find playing time, we were told. There is no doubt that many suitors should still come forward for the striker who has the qualities to render great service,” the publication says. Kadewere was a regular starter in his debut season at Lyon as he made an immediate impact at the club with 10 goals and three assists to justify the 15 million euros fee Lyon paid to bring him from Ligue 2 side Le Havre Having been a favourite of former coach Rudi Garcia, Kadewere has endured a difficult season under current coach Bosz, with the Dutchman only starting him five times in all competitions this season. The Zimbabwe international has scored just one goal this term. — Agencies.