The Herald Grace Chingoma
Senior Sports Reporter
BLACK Rhinos Queens maintained their supremacy over rivals Correctional Queens while pacesetters Chapungu Queens suffered their first defeat in the Zimbabwe Women’s Football League at the weekend. It was an exciting weekend in the women’s top-flight as the top four teams battled against each other. The matches showed that the level of competition in the league is improving. Champions Rhinos dismissed the Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services side 1-0 in their own backyard at Wagadhugu stadium in Chikurubi. Going into this match, the Prisons side had vowed that they will upset Black Rhinos Queens who have dominated in the clashes between these two sides. Black Rhinos Queens coach Kuda Matuvi said they hardly celebrate their victories in the league that they have dominated for so many years but on Saturday they celebrated wildly as Mighty Warriors midfielder Mavis Chirandu scored the all-important goal in the 89th minute. With the match seemingly headed for a draw, Chirandu broke Correctional Queens’ hearts. “It was a tough and exciting match and action swung from both sides. We also missed a lot of chances. I think they wanted a draw because they sat back and employed delaying tactics. “We celebrated when Mavis scored. We don’t really celebrate winning our games because it has become routine but we really celebrated this match. “This type of competition is what we need week-in and out. It is healthy,” said Matuvi. Across the city, at Manyame Sports Club, log leaders Chapungu, who had a 100 percent unbeaten run after five matches, were beaten 1-2 by third-placed Herentals. Herentals scored first through Polite Mabika before the hosts equalised through forward Ethel Chinyerere. Herentals restored their lead when Fortunate Nyoka scored from a free-kick. The Students now have 15 points from five games and a game in hand. The Air Force of the Zimbabwe side was also forced to make injury-inspired substitutions during the game which affected their rhythm. Captain Natasha Ndowa and striker Ethel Chinyerere were substituted. A Chapungu technical member told The Herald that they attribute the loss to the injuries as well as complacency. “It was a fair game. We dominated the game but wasted chances. Probably, I would attribute the loss to wasted chances, injuries to key players, and moments of complacency from the young players. “Having rebranded and with about half of the team now new additions, we are confident that we will bounce back from this first defeat stronger. “I am happy with the level of competition coming up now. The last time we played against Herentals during the 2019 season, we beat them 3-0 at their home, so this win shows that they have grown better,” said the official. At Pfupajena, Scorpion Queens were awarded their match against Yadah after the Harare side cancelled the fixture late. The league awarded the hosts the match on a 3-0 margin.  Results Black Mambas Queens 0, Conduit Soccer Academy 0; Scorpions Queens 3, Yadah Queens 0 (walkover); Correctional Queens 0, Black Rhinos Queens 1; Chapungu Queens 1, Herentals 2.