The Herald KENYA have made the boldest statement on the route they are taking towards restoring sanity in their football administration after the Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed yesterday appointed a transition committee to manage football activities in the country for the next five weeks. Amina, who had on Wednesday received a report from the outgoing Football Kenya Federation caretaker committee, announced via a Government Gazette another committee also headed by Retired Justice Aaron Ringera to help FKF transition to the next phase. “In exercise of the powers conferred by section 54 (1) of the Sports Act, 2013, the Cabinet Secretary for Sports, Culture and Heritage appoints the Football Kenya Federation Transition Committee…” read the Gazette notice. The members of the transition committee, which is largely made up of the members from the outgoing caretaker committee, are Aaron Ringera (chairperson), Maurice Oyugi (vice-chairperson), Ali Amour, Bobby Ogolla, Neddy Atieno, Caesar Handa, Hassan Haji, JJ Masiga (Dr), Michael Muchemi, Rachael Kamweru, Mwangi Muthee and Anthony Isayi. According to a Gazette Notice from the CS issued yesterday, the transition team’s mandate will mirror that of the caretaker committee which included; Conduct the affairs of Football Kenya Federation in accordance with the constitution of Football Kenya Federation; Ensure that Football Kenya Federation operates within the provisions of the Sports Act, 2013; Co-ordinate and ensure the smooth running of Football Kenya Federation operations, including team preparations for local and international sporting events; and Co-ordinate and facilitate the validation of the draft Constitution of Football Kenya Federation Television journalist Lindah Oguttu will continue service as the head of the secretariat while Lorine Nerea will be the secretary alongside Edward Rombo. Other members of the secretariat are journalists Robin Toskin and Maxwell Wasike and veteran coach Rashid Shedu. The mandate of the transition committee shall be to: “Conduct the affairs of Football Kenya Federation in accordance with the constitution of Football Kenya Federation.” Also, the committee is tasked with ensuring that the Football Kenya Federation operates within the provisions of the Sports Act, 2013. The transition committee will now embark on ensuring the weekend fixtures across all divisions go on as planned. The appointment of the committee could signal the end of any hopes of Kenya’s Harambee Stars featuring in the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers which kick off next month. Kenya is set to face Cameroon in the group opener in Yaounde if the suspension imposed by FIFA over government interference is lifted two weeks prior to the match day. The East African nation finds itself in the same predicament as Zimbabwe, who were also suspended by FIFA over “third party interference” in administration of football. The Sports and Recreation Commission have since set up a ZIFA restructuring committee as part of the “strategic roadmap towards addressing the issues that have affected football management and administration” in Zimbabwe. The committee was given until December 31 to execute their mandate. — Sports Reporter/Nation.