The Herald Crime Reporter THREE armed robbery suspects stormed a company in Harare, attacked a security guard and seized US$300 000 cash. The incident occurred at Battery Gates (Pvt) Ltd in the early hours of Friday in Newlands suburb. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi confirmed the incident saying investigations were underway. “The ZRP is investigating a robbery case which occurred in Newlands, Harare on May 6, 2022 at about 4am. The complainant aged 52 who is a private security guard was on duty when he was approached by three suspects who were armed with a pistol. “The suspects tied the complainant with a rope before stealing a safe containing US$300 000 cash. “Anyone with information should contact any nearest police station,” he said. Asst Comm Nyathi urged the public to desist from moving around or keeping large amounts of cash in their homes and business premises. The incident comes after police are still looking for three armed robbers who shot and killed a Chiweshe businessman’s wife after they raided their house and stole US$2 300 cash and six cellphones. The victim was shot once on the right side of the chest and she died on the spot. The incident occurred at around 2am at Kanhukamwe Business Centre, Chiweshe on April 29, 2022 when the three robbers who were armed with two unidentified pistols, robbed a local businessman of US$2 300 cash and six cellphones at his residence. One of the suspects shot the complainant’s wife once on the right side of the chest before they vanished into the darkness. The victim died on the spot and the body was referred to Concession District Hospital for post-mortem. Meanwhile, police are also investigating a robbery case which occurred last Thursday along a footpath near Limpopo View residential stands in Beitbridge. Three suspects, who were armed with a claw hammer and an okapi knife, attacked a 32-year-old man before stealing a cellphone as well as cash all valued at R2 250. In Harare, police are investigating a case of rape which occurred on May 5 at around 7pm, at an open space near Coca-Cola Bus Stop, Graniteside. The victim aged 32 was raped by two suspects who had offered her a lift to Arcadia at Seke Flyover. The suspects were travelling in a silver Honda Fit vehicle without registration numbers. Police in Chegutu have arrested Takwana Mbengo (27) in connection with a case of unlawful entry into premises and theft which occurred at Pfupajena High School in Chegutu where 40 laptops, 23 power packs and an Epson projector were stolen. All stolen gadgets were recovered hidden in a bushy area near Rifle Range Cemetery, Chegutu.