The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter DYNAMOS captain Partson Jaure says the Glamour Boys have been forced to put in a great shift ever since they landed on top of the Castle Lager Premiership football log standings. The Glamour Boys, who have battled hard to fend off pressure that comes with leading the marathon, are set for a David and Goliath affair against bottom of the table side Bulawayo City at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow. To put into context, the competition they have faced, DeMbare needed a late goal to open a two-point gap at the top with a hard fought 2-1 win over another struggling side Whawha in Gweru last weekend. Jaure said the pressure has been felt in every game they have played, despite going on an unbeaten run spanning eight league games. “It’s a good thing to be sitting at the top (of the table) because it shows we are working hard. But there is no time to relax,” said Jaure  “We are not safe at the top. “If you ask me, I think we climbed to the top too early because every team now targets to beat us, and the season is still long. So we are always putting in a strong shift in each and every game. “When you are at the top of the table like this, there is a lot of pressure on you. So it means we have to work extra hard in order to maintain the position,” said Jaure. The DeMbare skipper admitted the so-called small teams were among the most difficult opponents after they laboured for victory against Whawha, who sit second from the bottom, in their last outing.   Bulawayo City are no different. The Bulawayo City Council-owned side have performed badly this season and they come into this tie on the back of five defeats on the trot. They made a key decision during the week when they fired coach Philani Ncube and replaced him with Farai Tawachera. “It’s easier to underestimate Bulawayo City as a small team but in football there is a possibility for things to turn out differently on the pitch. “I heard they have a new coach and it is always expected that when there is a new man in charge, every player will put maximum effort to try and convince him. “So that means we have to go into this fixture with the same fighting spirit that we carry when we play CAPS United or Highlanders,” said Jaure. DeMbare have made a bright start this year and have had a breath of fresh air at the top of the table. They had not sat at the apex in a while, with the Glamour Boys’ championship drought now in the eighth year. Jaure feels this could be their year to turn things around and had a word of advice to most of the youthful players at the club. The likes of Brendon Mpofu, Bill Antonio, Tino Muringai and Emmanuel Jalai have been key members of the campaign. Former Prince Edward pupil, Antonio, in particular, has been stand-out in his debut season of top-flight football. “There is always that danger to grow big-headed when you play well, score goals and win over the hearts of the fans. “I am trying to help them. I have been telling the guys that we haven’t started playing football this year yet because the league is still far from being won. “So we have to continue working hard as a team and when we have the league title in the cabinet then we start talking about our successes. For now, it’s too early to think that you have made it. There are still many things that still need improvement. “Some of us have been in the trenches for a long time. I have been here at DeMbare, went to South Africa, Zambia and returned home again. “We know these things happen and I am trying my best to keep the youngsters focused so that they don’t feel like they have arrived already. Use the opportunities to the best of your abilities when you get the chance to play. “As long as you haven’t made it in one of the competitive foreign leagues, then you haven’t started yet. Football can be a rewarding profession,” said Jaure. Dynamos are leading the marathon with 29 points. They are two ahead of Chicken Inn, who host Herentals at Luveve this afternoon. Dynamos coach, Tonderai Ndiraya, is still demanding more from his players. “We have been good as a team across the board, that’s what is pleasing about us. The support has been tremendous from everyone and the mood is just good. “We are also working very hard to guard against complacency. We know that when a team is winning you tend to have some elements within the team that become complacent. So that’s what we have been working on lately. “We have been on a good run and naturally when you are on a good run it takes a team with a very strong mentality to keep themselves on their toes and continue to get the results that are needed,” said Ndiraya. Bulawayo City, on the other hand, sit at the bottom of the pile with a meagre six points. They have one win and nine defeats in 13 outings. New coach Tawachera said he was aware of the task in his hands. “It’s more like homecoming. Hurried appointment, yes, but would you let someone on the death bed just die? I am here to save the situation,” said Tawachera.