The Herald BOURNEMOUTH. — AFC Bournemouth’s Zimbabwean full-back Jordan Zemura was at his brilliant best in the English Championship football season closer against Millwall at the weekend, admitting: “I felt like in the second half, especially I was flying down that left-hand side.” Zemura (22) has enjoyed a memorable breakthrough season at Cherries, ending the campaign with 33 appearances in the Championship. He played a key role in the goal for Emiliano Marcondes, which was eventually ruled out for off-side, before continuing to impress as Cherries won 1-0, thanks to Kieffer Moore’s late strike at Vitality Stadium on Saturday. “Today I just wanted to go and express myself, drive at them, run at them,” Zemura told the Daily Echo. “I felt like in the second half especially I was flying down that left-hand side, so it was amazing. “I’m really happy to enjoy today and especially get the win, get the three points, the clean sheet record. So it’s not too bad!” Zemura was sporting a fresh haircut for the occasion. “I was at the hairdressers yesterday and I said to them, ‘let me freshen it up, let’s do it’ and I’ve done it!” At the weekend, AFC Bournemouth squad enjoyed a trophy presentation at Vitality Stadium after finishing second in the Sky Bet English Championship. The squad were brought out one-by-one to a standing ovation from the home crowd, with Scott Parker and his staff also recognised. CEO Neill Blake handed out runners up medals to the team, who were also given a trophy for finishing second in the Championship. Captain Lloyd Kelly lifted it in front of his squad, who were quick to open the champagne in celebration. The players were then joined by their families and did a lap of honour around the stadium in front of the fans, who stayed behind to cheer their team. Individually, Mark Travers scooped four awards, winning Supporters Player of the Season, Vice Presidents Player of the Season, the Daily Echo’s Player of the Season and the Golden Glove. The ‘keeper finished the season with 20 clean sheets to his name, as the Cherries also lost the fewest number of matches in the league. Elsewhere, Dominic Solanke picked up the Junior Cherries Player of the Season, having scored 30 goals in all competitions this season, the second highest in the Championship. Becki Bath was also there to represent the women’s team and was given her Player of the Season award by sponsors Bournemouth University. There was also a nice moment for the AFC Bournemouth grounds staff, who were recently named as the Championship’s Grounds Team of the Season by the EFL. Having been highly commended as part of last season’s award, Ian Lucas and his team have gone on to claim the top award for their work over the 2021/22 campaign. Bournemouth players, including Zemura, are now in Dubai for a short break. Full list of award winners Supporters Player of the Season: Mark Travers Junior Cherries Player of the Season: Dom Solanke Vice-Presidents Player of the Season: Mark Travers Daily Echo’s Micky Cave Player of the Season: Mark Travers Golden Glove: Mark Travers Women’s Player of the Season: Becki Bath Grounds Team of the Season: AFC Bournemouth Grounds Team — Daily Echo