The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter VETERAN boxing administrator and promoter Stalin Mau-Mau has implored WBC interim champion Kudakwashe “Take Money” Chiwandire to remain grounded and retain positive energy. Chiwandire is riding on the crest of the wave after winning the WBC super-bantamweight interim title against Zambia’s Catherine Phiri in February. And the 26-year-old was honored by President Mnangagwa in Harare last week with the Head of State gifting the former karateka with a US$15 000 cash reward. She is using part of the money to build a house for her parents in Dzivarasekwa while part of it goes towards preparations for her title defence in August. With the mother of three attracting attention especially after her visit to the State House and her subsequent exhibition at the just-ended Zimbabwe International Trade Fair, Mau-Mau has warned Chiwandire should guard against growing a big head. So many boxers and sportspersons have failed to realise their full potential after fame got the better of them and Mau-Mau, who has seen it all in an illustrious administration capacity, has a piece of advice for the star pugilist. “Look, Kudakwashe Chiwandire has opened doors for herself. It is up to her to keep shining,” said Mau-Mau. “The problem with our boxers sometimes is that when they become popular it really gets into their heads and they inevitably end up losing it. That is the problem with most of our boxers. “So Kuda should meticulously adhere to the highest levels of discipline. She should keep a cool head, train more harder because these youngsters often end up going down the drain the moment it gets into their heads. “She has to definitely guard against that. The only option available for her right now is to work harder and harder and she will bring the world under her feet.” Mau-Mau said the belt Chiwandire has is significant as it is the first time a Zimbabwean boxer has brought it home. “The belt that Kudakwashe Chiwandire has won is very significant. It makes her rated by the WBC and she is mandatory to challenge for the world title. “Kuda is headed for greatness. She is a talented boxer who has defied odds to be where she is right now and she has to fight to maintain her status. “I tell you, Kuda’s achievements have inspired everyone in the boxing fraternity across amateur and professional ranks and she should maintain highest standards of professionalism for others to look up to her. “As a country, what Kuda Chiwandire has shown is that we are good enough to challenge for the world gold championship. “If you look at it closely, Charles Manyuchi was also one step away from challenging for gold when he won the WBC silver title a few years ago. And now it’s Kuda who is just a step away. We have good enough quality in the ranks and we should start with Kuda winning it (WBC world title). “If Kuda works harder, as she has already done, I can assure you there is nothing that can stop her from landing the ultimate title. “I was absolutely astounded by the energy, zeal, character and enthusiasm carried by Kuda into that ring against Catherine Phiri. For me, it was the energy that stood out. She needs to maintain that degree of focus and I assure you she will be a top, top boxer. “I also urge the corporate world to come aboard and support the cause. This is the showcase, the highest Zimbabwean boxing has attained and sponsors should also partner Kuda given the value she now carries,” Mau-Mau said. Chiwandire is already back in the gym readying for her title defence in August. Mau-Mau said if the current crop of boxers continue working hard and bringing titles home, they will bring back the glory this country used to enjoy in the hey days of Langton ‘’Schoolboy’’ Tinago and Proud “Kilimanjaro” Chinembiri, among others.