The Herald Dylan Dzenga-Youth Interactive Writer “People’s perceptions and views have failed to limit me as a young girl from the rural areas to rise up and pursue my goals.” Charlotte Chigwedere is a 21-year-old girl who grew up in the rural parts of Gumbonzvanda, Wedza, and had always had bigger dreams as a feminist advocating for young women and girls’ rights. The young lady is a first year Peace and Governance student at Bindura University of Science and Technology. “I noticed how a few women oriented programmes and organisations are implemented and operate in rural areas yet they also face the same economic, social and political problems s women in towns.” After completing her Advanced Level studies, Charlotte embarked on an activism journey through the establishment of the prominent Active Mind-sets, a movement for young women with the aim of building assertive and self-sufficient young ladies from the rural areas. Charlotte has completed most of her goals within a short space of time considering how active she has been as a feminist and leading the movement. Active Mind-sets is widely known in most universities like Women’s University, Bindura, and National University of Science and Technology (NUST) and also reached to other young women in the United Kingdom with the same ideas as Charlotte herself. “Active Mind-sets was a great move that I am still thankful to Charlotte because it is a cheerleader of talents and goals set to unleash these hidden treasures by giving young women a platform to showcase themselves,” said Miriro Kwapatiri, the organisation’s Mashonaland East Ambassador The organisation has been appreciated by many parents who saw the positive impact amongst the youths. One of the parents, who could not have her identity revealed for the safety of her daughter also shared a testimony telling how the organization saved her daughter from committing suicide after failing to pass her ZIMSEC examinations. “Peer-to-peer interactions have a major role in helping the youths of today considering how they usually do not want to talk to the adults about issues they are going through,” Chigwedere added The initiative has managed to break any barriers between young women and girls from the rural areas and those in towns by recognizing their similarities and finding solutions to assist each other. “All this has been nothing but success and promises of a brighter future for me as a young feminist and nothing brings me happiness than seeing young women and girls from both rural and urban areas coming together to raise each other to success.” Charlotte said Chigwedere is one of the finalists competing for Miss Villages Zimbabwe. The young lady has proven to society how every individual, despite their status, area of residence amongst other things has the ability to bring change in whatever aspect they intend to focus on or whatever group of people they want to help.