The Herald Tendai Gukutikwa
Manicaland Bureau
Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services Minister Monica Mutsvangwa has commended the Young Women for Economic Development (YW4ED) for its inclusion of first time voters in economic development and business. Speaking during a handover ceremony of 4 000 chicks to young women in Buhera West constituency yesterday, Minister Mutsvangwa said including the young women will help bring up women who know the values of an empowered nation. The donation was sourced from President Mnangagwa by YW4ED chairperson Cde Tatenda Mavetera. “The President is creating an environment in which everyone is empowered, but we can only enjoy this environment if everyone, including our young women, know the values of such an environment,” said Minister Mutsvangwa. “The YW4ED has a mission to unite young women through inclusion in all sectoral projects. It welcomes every girl and young woman regardless of their parents’ political affiliation because it is inclusive.” Minister Mutsvangwa said YW4ED was there to raise an economically empowered generation, thereby improving the economy in the long run. She advised the young women to find value in themselves and not rush into marriage. “Find value in yourself, be proud of yourself and your background,” she said. “Appreciate your background and shun early child marriages, they are not the way to go. You need to better yourselves first before even thinking of getting married. “Do not mind the tough hurdles that you might encounter while on your way to your goal. It is only natural. We have all been through tough situations, but we struggled on.” Minister Mutsvangwa challenged other stakeholders to partner with the YW4ED so that more people could be empowered. Addressing the meeting, chairperson for the YW4ED Manicaland Chapter, Mrs Patricia Gudhlanga, said they were strategically targeting first time women voters and those about to register aged between 17 and 20 across the province. She said the projects will also help in combating drug abuse among youths as they would be occupied with income generation. “As YW4ED, we are saying no to drugs, and these income generating projects will to a larger extent help in raising awareness against drug abuse because our youths will no longer be idle, but concentrating on making money and bettering their nation,” she said. YW4ED national member Ms Nyengeterai Mahofa thanked Minister Mutsvangwa for availing a minibus to the YW4ED Manicaland Chapter. She said gesture would go a long way in supporting their activities.