The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter THE Premier Soccer League have moved to nip violence and hooliganism in domestic football after summoning giants Dynamos and Highlanders for a disciplinary hearing. The two clubs are expected to face the PSL Disciplinary Committee on June 8 following the anarchy that led to the abandonment of their league match at Barbourfields about two weeks ago, Images at Barbourfields two weeks ago painted a bad picture as one of the country’s biggest matches between Highlanders and Dynamos was abandoned prematurely. The match was characterised by many flaws on the pitch was also marred extreme levels of insanity in the terraces. Almost everyone was behaving disorderly and it was such bad advertisement for local football. Rowdy fans invaded the pitch at different intervals, with both Highlanders and travelling Dynamos supporters guilty of the offense. In the height of the madness, one of the fans was captured attacking a match official, who had to defend himself by fighting back. The attack on referees, the destruction of the perimeter fence and advertising billboards by these hooligans, some of whom also attempted to uproot the goal posts and tore down the goal nets put a huge damper on what was supposed to be an afternoon of exciting football. This also came a month after the game between FC Platinum and Highlanders was abandoned, again due to crowd trouble. There were also bad scenes when Dynamos played Bulawayo Chiefs at Barbourfields and the Glamour Boys have since been fined. The PSL yesterday laid seven breaches against Dynamos and four against Highlanders following the latest incidents at Barbourfields. The two giants are set to be handed stiffer punishments to send the message to the stakeholders about the need to stop violence and hooliganism. “The Premier Soccer League has summoned Dynamos FC and Highlanders FC to appear before the PSL Disciplinary Committee following acts of violence and hooliganism that took place at a Castle Lager PSL match featuring the two teams played at Barbourfields Stadium on Sunday 15 May 2022,” said the PSL in a statement yesterday. “Dynamos FC is being charged for breaching Order 31 of the PSL Rules and Regulations which makes it an act of misconduct on the part of the club where; 31.1.13 Its supporters misbehave in any manner whatsoever, inside or outside a ground before, during or after a match, no matter on which ground the match is played. Without derogating from the generality of what constitutes misbehaviours on the part of supporters, the following are specifically declared to be acts of misbehaviour: 31.1.13.1 Invasion or attempted invasion of the field of play, save for reasons of crowd safety; 31.1.13.2 Causing the abandonment or attempting to cause the abandonment of a match; 31.1.13.3 Throwing or attempting to throw missiles, bottled and other objects, whether potentially harmful or dangerous or not, on to the pitch, or at any person; 31.1.13.8 Maliciously damaging or attempting to damage any property at the ground; 31.1.23 It’s officials, players, servants or duly authorized (express or implied) representatives assault, threaten, intimidate, coerce, interfere, mislead or insult a match official, player , official of the League, public, press or media, or any other person, before, during or after any match. 31.1.2 Its players, officials, servants or duly authorised (expressed or implied) representatives or supporters directly or indirectly interrupt, obstruct or disturb the normal proceedings of a game before, during or after the match; Highlanders FC is being charged for breaching the PSL rules and regulations as follows: 31.1.2 Its players, officials, servants or duly authorized (expressed or implied) representatives or supporters directly or indirectly interrupt, obstruct or disturb the normal proceedings of a game before, during or after the match 31.1.13 Its supporters misbehave in any manner whatsoever, inside or outside a ground before, during or after a match, no matter on which ground the match is played. Without derogating from the generality of what constitutes misbehaviours on the part of supporters, the following are specifically declared to be acts of misbehaviour:- 31.1.13.1 Invasion or attempted invasion of the field of play, save for reasons of crowd safety; 31.1.13.3 Throwing or attempting to throw missiles, bottled and other objects, whether potentially harmful or dangerous or not, on to the pitch, or at any person; The disciplinary proceedings shall take place on Wednesday 8 June 2022 at the PSL offices.”