The Herald MADRID. — Spanish teenager Carlos Alcaraz capped another impressive week with a straight-sets victory over Alexander Zverev on Sunday to win the Madrid Open and become the second-youngest player to win two Masters 1000 tennis titles. His comfortable 6-3, 6-1 win over Zverev followed victories over his idol Rafael Nadal in the quarter-finals and top-ranked Novak Djokovic in the semis. Alcaraz rose three places to sixth in the men’s ATP rankings following his victory in the Madrid Open on Sunday. “Last year I was going through these experiences for the first time, playing against the best players, playing in the Masters 1000, and I learned a lot,” Alcaraz said. “Now it’s different. I go onto the court knowing that I can win, with the confidence that I can win at any moment.” Alcaraz became the youngest winner of the tournament and the second-youngest to win two Masters 1000 trophies after Nadal won in Monte Carlo and Rome in 2005. Alcaraz had already become the youngest to enter the top 10 since Nadal did it in 2005. “It feels great to be able to beat these players,” said the 19-year-old. “To beat two of the best players in history and then Zverev, the world No 3. He is a great player. I would say this is the best week of my life.” It was the seventh straight win over a top-10 player for Alcaraz, and his tour-leading fourth title of the year. He also has the most wins this season with 28, one more than Stefanos Tsitsipas. Zverev was trying to win his second consecutive Madrid title, and third overall. He had only praise for Alcaraz after the match. “Right now you are the best player in the world,” Zverev said after the match and joked about his opponent’s age. “Even though you are still five-years-old, you are still beating us all, so great to see for tennis that we have such a new superstar who is going to win many grand slams, who is going to be No. 1 and is going to win this tournament many times.” Alcaraz had won his first Masters 1000 tournament in Miami earlier this year. He had also won in Rio de Janeiro and Barcelona. His first career title came in Umag last year. Alcaraz’s three losses this season came against Sebastian Korda in Monte Carlo, Nadal in Indian Wells and Matteo Berrettini in the Australian Open. After long three-set wins over Nadal and Djokovic, the seventh-seeded Alcaraz kept his high energy from the start against Zverev and was in control throughout the match. He didn’t face any break points and converted four of the eight he had against the second-seeded Zverev. Alcaraz had 11 unforced errors compared to 25 by Zverev. “I am 19, which I think is the key to be able to play long and tough matches in a row. I am feeling great physically,” Alcaraz said. He said it was special to win in Madrid, where he first started watching tennis at an early age.  – AFP