The Herald FORMER Zimbabwe senior national women’s football team player star Aldiglade Bhamu has died after a short illness. She was 34. Bhamu passed away at a local hospital on Thursday having been admitted early this week after collapsing at her family home in Harare. Bhamu will be buried tomorrow at Zororo Memorial Park. According to her younger sister Gloria Bhamu, she had collapsed at her family home on Monday. “She was rushed to Parirenyatwa Hospital and they said she had suffered a stroke and her blood pressure was very high. Her condition was bad and on Thursday evening she died,” said Gloria. The hardworking midfielder was part of the Mighty Warriors squad that featured at the 2016 Women Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. Bhamu also played for Mufakose Queens and Harare City Queens where she established herself as one of the top players in the Zimbabwe National Women’s Soccer League. At the time of her death, Bhamu was still an integral member of the Rosemary Mugadza-coached Harare City Queens. She was also coaching junior players at BN Academy. Mighty Warriors star Rudo Neshamba led the tributes to her former teammate “A dark cloud has fallen on Zimbabwe Women’s football. We are deeply saddened by the passing of former Mighty Warriors and Harare City Queens player Aldiglade Gie Bhamu. Rest in peace Mighty Warrior! We will miss you. City will never be the same without you. Your absence will surely be felt,” Neshamba wrote on social media. Ngezi Platinum Stars also paid tribute to Bhamu. Harare City assistant coach Langton Giwa said the players are in shock. “The players are in shock and everyone is devastated. She trained on Thursday last week but our weekend’s match was cancelled so on Friday we did not train and we resumed our training sessions on Tuesday. “It is a sad loss. Bhamu was a hardworking player. She was a cheerful player and her absence will be felt,” said Giwa. The veteran coach, who has groomed a number of players from the high-density suburb of Mufakose, started working with Bhamu when she was still in school. “I started working with her when she was in Form 1 at Mufakose High 3. “She once went to play for Black Rhinos Queens and then came to Harare City, and she was working with coach Rose Mugadza and I was with the junior team,” said Giwa. Bhamu began her career as a right-back before she was later converted into a midfielder. She featured for the national Under-20 side as well as the Mighty Warriors. Harare City Football Club chairman Alois Masepe said they were saddened by the  untimely departure of the star who was in action for her club last week. The council side in their condolence message said the player will be missed. “Harare City FC joins the Bhamu family in mourning our senior player Aldigrade. She will be solely missed. The club is poorer without her. May her soul rest in peace,” said the club. Former Mighty Warriors manager Charity Munemo said she was saddened by the untimely death of the midfielder. “It is a sad day for women’s football. I am heartbroken. I worked with Bhamu for many years when she was still playing for the national team. She was quiet but was always cheerful. She never got herself into trouble during camps. May her dear soul rest in eternal peace,” said Munemo. Mourners are gathered at 11919 Kuwadzana Extension. The burial arrangements will be advised in due course. – Sports Reporter/ZimSportLive