The Herald Phillip Zulu Special Correspondent ECSTATIC scenes of celebrations; jubilation in excitement of returning back to the English Premiership football by AFC Bournemouth and, our own young Warrior Jordan Zemura joining the local fans in dance and chants, catapulted his career in the dizzy heights of top Premiership football. Such wild scenes of joy make English Premiership football a global attraction and appeal, something that intrigues the fans and aspiring young footballers. Young Zemura hails from a pure football family whose inscription in the  glamour of Zimbabwe Saints (Chauya Chikwata or simply, Super Saints), now defunct, is a sad reminder of how much our football needs the whole Zemura clan back again in the local midst. I was reminded of the great Super Saints recently by a photo of Andrew ‘’Mai Maria’’ Kadengu, a magical attacking midfielder during his heydays with Super Saints. To those that  never watched Super Saints during their eloquence of the pass and move philosophy of play, instructive style that was built from the two wing backs of the lates, Philemon Dangarembizi and Norbert Zimuto, and progressed with width and technical draughtsmenship of Max ‘’Shaluza’’ Tshuma, Kadengu and Douglas Maneto accurately and dictating the forward offensive moves with speedy wingers like Steve ‘’The Dude’’ Kwashi and deadly finisher, Onias Musana, banging in all the great goals with perfection. Those that are in denial of whether our football can ever rise from its slumber; look no further than Jordan Zemura. His family history is beyond any doubt and yet, a few years ago when Mistry Chipere, leader of the Zimbabwe Foreign Legion, forwarded young Jordan’s name for consideration, he was ignored and discouraged by the negative energy and the hostility from the then Under-17 and Under-23 coaching staff. This is the greatest journey and a dream come true from Super Saints fame to the English Premiership. Jordan’s achievement brings sweet memories of Super Saints, the professionalism that drove Chauya Chikwata to be one of the top teams in the country. Jordan joins another Warrior in this amazing league, Marvelous Nakamba of Aston Villa who clocks his fourth season at Villa Park. A closer look at Tendai Darikwa of Wigan Athletic. His dad had some exposure with Dynamos, such achievements should help to instil confidence in our local football leagues that we have the capacity and knowledge to turn around things for the better. To the aspiring youngsters who dream of playing for their country, Jordan never gave up even when he was released by Charlton Athletic as a youth player and that is a positive sign of someone who has a strong mentality. We are slowly rising from the dead, and the resurgence of Zimbabwean football abroad is in full throttle as we expect three more young Zimbabweans to break into the Portuguese Second Division when the new season of 2022-2023 starts in August. Every youngster out there should read Jordan’s story with belief. Hard work won the day for our WARRIOR.