The Herald Amjad al-Fayyed, 17, was killed after an Israeli raid in the occupied West Bank city of Jenin. Local media reported confrontations erupted outside Jenin’s refugee camp when Israeli forces stormed the area. Israeli troops shot and killed a teenage Palestinian boy as they raided the northern city of Jenin in the occupied West Bank, the Palestinian health ministry and local media said. The health ministry identified the dead teen as Amjad al-Fayyed, 17. It said an 18-year-old Palestinian was in a critical condition after being wounded by Israeli gunfire. “A 17-year-old boy was killed and an 18-year-old was critically wounded by the Israeli occupation’s bullets during its aggression on Jenin,” the ministry said in a statement. Local media reported confrontations erupted outside Jenin’s refugee camp when Israeli forces stormed the area, and al-Fayyed was hit by about a dozen rounds fired into the upper part of his body. The Israeli military said Palestinian suspects fired on its soldiers and threw fire bombs at them. “The soldiers responded with live fire toward the suspects. Hits were identified,” the military said. It was not immediately clear whether the teen killed was one of those suspects. The Palestinian Islamic Jihad group described the teenager as one of its members and said he had taken part in the fighting against the Israeli soldiers. Photos circulated on social media showed him holding a rifle. A hub of armed Palestinian groups, the Jenin area has been repeatedly raided by Israeli forces since a wave of attacks in late March, with many of the perpetrators coming from there. Operations to track down suspects and clashes with Palestinians have often turned deadly for both sides. Young relatives of a 17-year-old Palestinian Amjad Al-Fayed, wait to see his corpse outside a hospital morgue Relatives of 17-year-old Palestinian Amjad al-Fayed wait to see his body outside a hospital morgue in the occupied West Bank city of Jenin “We warn against the consequences of the occupation’s continued crimes against our people. We urge the international community to condemn them and hold the perpetrators accountable,” Shtayyeh said in a statement. —. Al Jazeera