The Herald Nyore Madzianike
Senior Court Reporter
THE trial of former MDC Alliance Chitungwiza Ward 12 councillor, Darlington Musonza, on allegations of fraud involving the sale of a residential stand, had a false start yesterday after his lawyers indicated that he was not ready to start the hearing. Musonza’s trial was expected to kick-off before Harare regional magistrate Mrs Feresi Chakanyuka, but his lawyer Mr Marufu Mandevere indicated that he received State papers to prepare for the trial late. The matter was then postponed to May 30 for trial. Musonza is alleged to have duped Kudakwashe Chatima. The State led by Mrs Tendai Shonhai had it that sometime in 2017, Chatima approached Vincent Tom-Barris, a Chitungwiza-based real estate dealer, intending to buy a residential stand. After a few days, Tom-Barris advised Chatima that Musonza was selling residential stands in Chitungwiza. Tom-Barris then introduced Chatima to Musonza, who indicated that there was a residential stand, No. 14557 Zengeza 3 Extension, which he was selling for US$3 800. In March 2017, it is alleged that Chatima paid US$3 230 through CABS into Musonza’s Steward Bank account before he made other payments of US$300 and US$240. The State further alleges that Chatima would pay in groceries bought at TM Supermarket Zengeza 2 and fuel of US$30. It is said that after Chatima made full payment of the money, they then signed an acknowledgement of receipt pertaining to the sale of the stand. Chatima was allegedly given a site plan and an allocation letter with a letterhead from Cone Textiles Housing Cooperative. He was then advised to proceed to Chitungwiza Municipality Offices to process change of ownership, according to the State. Chatima went to Chitungwiza Municipality Offices with the letter and was advised by the Director of Housing that the Council had no file records for the stand in question. He then went to make a report to the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission with investigations revealing that stand No.14557 does not exist in council records. Further investigations also revealed that the site plan given to Chatima was a forged document, as it contained non-existent stands encroaching into stand number 14288 and the adjacent road when compared with the original site plan DT 2332.