The Herald Tafadzwa Zimoyo Fashion 263 Welcome to the month of May. For most of us, the month is the beginning of winter, but some have said that winter is not a season, but a celebration. Well, there is something magical about winter time, as the days start to get a little shorter and a lot colder, it’s easy to lose sight of this sense of wonder. Fear not, all you need is a little shift in perspective to see the beauty of winter again. Still at the beginning of May, last Monday, the popular US fashion event, the Met gala exhibit, examined American fashion, frame by frame. According to AP news agency, even for a legendary film director like Martin Scorsese, the assignment was a daunting one. Take one of the famous American period rooms at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and make essentially a one-frame movie with no camera: a tableau, not a film, but using your cinematic sensibility. Your actors are mannequins, and the costumes have been chosen for you. “Create a one-frame movie in a period room? “A great opportunity and an intriguing challenge,” the director writes in a statement next to his creation, a mysterious mix of characters, emotions and fashion in the museum’s striking Frank Lloyd Wright Room. Guests at the gala, which raises millions for the self-funding institute and has become a major fashion and pop culture spectacle, will be among the first to see the displays. So many asked, what was gilded glamour. From the moment the Met Gala’s 2022 theme was announced, people have tried to unpack its meaning. For some, the phrase calls to mind Edith Wharton’s New York; others find it reminiscent of the blingy, streetwise look of the early 2000s. Given the room for interpretation, guests at the event were free to chart their own course. They did so gleefully, dressing to the nines in custom designer outfits and archival vintage. As always the red carpet was filled with lengthy trains, giant jewels, and extroverts looking to make their mark. The sheer number of attention-grabbing looks meant that breaking from the norm was the only way to truly stand out. Enough of that, back to winter check. Yes, fashion is back! Clothes have returned and dressing up is here to stay. This week we visited male stylist shop 4May International who shared their winter tips and, obviously, what’s in the closet. Like said before, this is a new month, and May 4 was 4May International’s anniversary. Well, there’s a common misconception that religiously adhering to trends equates to good dressing. Here are some of the winter trends 4May International said we should be guided accordingly. Get the right shoe They said that your toes should be chiselled. Chisel-toed boots have been stomping their way down the world’s runways for some time now. Where the trend originated in its most recent iteration is up for debate, with some touting Rick Owens’ “Tractor” boot as the progenitor, and others referencing Daniel Lee’s “Lean” at Bottega Veneta. For the winter season, however, the best of the stompy black shoes is the Prada. They said that the Chelsea boots looked menacing, worn with funereal suiting. In fact, the Chelsea boot has always been one of the most elegant, sleek and low-profile boot options. While that’s all well and good in fair weather, the thick, rugged soles have been cropping up all over men’s footwear for quite some time. This classic silhouette is fully equipped to deal with the cold. Not to mention the added chunkiness opens up your wardrobe options — allowing you to play with looser fits and heavy layering. Sweater vests are still in the game Fashion loves a sweater vest. The sleeveless knit has been given an injection of go-go juice, with a host of brilliantly nutso takes on the form being paraded down the runways. Tailoring isn’t the only thing getting looser in 2021 As we transition into winter, slouchy overcoats, boxy puffer jackets and lengthy parkas will continue to be popular. Oversized belted overcoats in particular are worth paying special attention to. There’s a lot to be said for this trend as it bolsters one of the best things about winter menswear: the ability to layer. Oversized outerwear leaves lots of room to get creative with your pieces underneath, creating plenty of depth with varying textures and tones. That makes it a winner in our book. Leather Due to its good looks, ruggedness and timeless appeal, leather will continue to be a trend winter after winter. A quality bomber jacket made from the stuff will probably be one of the soundest style investments you’re ever likely to make. It won’t come cheap, but it will last a lifetime. If you haven’t already added one to your collection, this coming winter is the time to do it. And if you really want to stay on trend, why not go for a model with a belted waist? Pinstripes Whether it was oversized suiting or wide-leg trousers, pinstripes were everywhere at the menswear shows. It’s a welcome return for one of the coolest patterns in tailoring. If business casual is well too casual, opt for fine quality pinstriped suit. Single breasted is a classic option, but why not go all-out 1980s stockbroker and try a double-breasted jacket with peak lapels? That’s right, tailoring has now gone full circle.