The Herald Innocent Kurira Sports Reporter Bulawayo Chiefs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2 Caps United  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  0 HEAD coach Lloyd Chitembwe says CAPS United fans deserve better after his side suffered a humiliating, but almost predictable defeat to Bulawayo Chiefs in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at Luveve Stadium yesterday. The only positive for the visitors was that their fans didn’t stop singing their hearts out, while Chitembwe barked instructions up to the end of their disastrous game. This was CAPS United’s fifth consecutive loss and they are fast closing in on their worst losing streak of seven straight loss between July and August 2012. “We have a responsibility as players and coaches and that responsibility is to win matches. We should just go out there and do what is expected of us. You feel for these people (supporters). Personally, l feel for them. I understand their frustrations and it is in these moments when they expect so much from players and you do not seem to be giving them what they expect and they are still supporting us through and through. I feel they deserve better,” said Chitembwe. “I don’t hold any grudges when the fans demand results because this is the nature of the club to win matches. We are a big club and the status is massive. So, the fans expect excellence each time you go out there. There is need for us to respect the feelings of the fans each time we go onto the field of play,” he said. For a club that only travelled way after their arranged time and have been facing several player unrests, it was no surprise that they were behind with just eight minutes on the clock. Farau Matare shot the home team into the lead after a lapse in concentration in the CAPS United backline, which allowed the Chiefs’ hitman to tap home with ease. CAPS United upped their game after conceding, but failed to convert the few chances that they created. Phineas Bamusi always looked threatening each time he was on the ball, but he and his strike partners lacked accuracy in front of goal. The Green Machine was further silenced by a spectacular second goal from Wilson Mensah in the 27th minute whose low left-footed shot from outside the box beat goalkeeper Tatenda Munditi all systems out. Chiefs held onto the lead and were content with snuffing out any CAPS United threat in the second-half. Chiefs’ coach Thulani Sibanda said: “The boys showed a lot of determination and you have to give the boys credit for that. We did not change anything because the coach was not there. He was in constant touch with us.” Head coach Nilton Terroso missed the game, as he is attending a coaching course in England.
Teams Bulawayo Chiefs David Bizabani, Elvis Moyo, Wilson Mensah (Ben Nyahunzvi 60th min) Hughe Chikosa (Billy Veremu 69th min), Lucky Ndlela, Authur Musiyiwa, Malvin Mkolo, Kevin Moyo, Perfect Chikwende, Felix Moyo, Farau Matare ( Obadiah Tarumbwa 80th min)
Caps United Tatenda Munditi, Marshal Machazane, Jimmy Dzingai (Ian Nyoni 39th min), Kenneth Bulaji, Tichaona Macheka, Devon Chafa, Roswell Chinyengetere, Diego Makurumidze, Phenias Bhamusi, Joseph Tulani, William Manondo