The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe national cricket select teams yesterday suffered a bad day in the office after losing their T20 matches to Nepal and South Africa A. The Zimbabwe A team, which is currently on tour of Nepal, succumbed to a huge upset in the final match of the series after they were handed an eight-wicket defeat. The result ensured the three-match series ended level 1-1. The Zimbabweans had taken early advantage in the series after cruising to a six-wicket win in the opening match last weekend. The second match, however, was abandoned with only four overs bowled following a heavy downpour in the ancient city of Kirtipur, which plays host to the Zimbabwe A side for three T20s and three one-dayers. The hosts elected to field first yesterday after winning the toss. The Zimbabweans never got their innings going as they lost wickets at regular intervals. They had opener Innocent Kaia (14) and Kudzai Maunze (6) back at the pavilion after 3.4 overs, with 26 runs on the board. Tadiwanashe Marumani (27) and Roy Kaia (49) featured in the highest partnership, which yielded 45 runs. Kaia missed his half ton following a run out late in the innings as Zimbabwe reached 136/7 in their 20 overs. The hosts managed to overhaul the target comfortably when they raced to 138/2, with 25 balls in hand. Wicketkeeper batsman Aasif Sheikh led the rout when he plundered 87 runs from 54 balls. His knock included 13 fours and a maximum. He was involved in a key 88-run partnership for the first wicket with Kushal Bhurtel, who contributed 34 runs from 26 balls. Zimbabwe A skipper Tony Munyonga, who scored a blistering 50 from 23 balls in the first T20 at the weekend, was named Man of the Series. The two teams will shift focus to the one day games beginning tomorrow. Back home, the Zimbabwe XI side suffered their second successive defeat to visiting South Africa A in the T20 series at Harare Sports Club. A 142-run opening stand between Lesiba Ngoepe (114) and Reeza Hendricks (77) set the visitors on their way to 224/4 before Lizaad Williams’ 3-38 led the bowlers to restrict Zimbabwe XI to 202/9. Zimbabwe XI skipper Sikandar Raza played a brilliant innings, scoring 82 runs from 42 balls. The entertaining innings included nine sixes and two fours. Ryan Burl also contributed 30 from 16 balls but it was not enough as the hosts fell 22 runs short. South Africa A lead the five-match series 2-0. The third match will be played on Saturday at the same venue.