The Herald Herald Correspondent Augur Investments, in partnership with the City of Harare, today launched the refurbishment of Warren Hills Golf Course in Harare. Speaking at the launch, the company chief executive officer Kenneth Sharpe said the development will mark the start of a big project. Sharpe said his plea was for the people of Zimbabwe to give him a chance to develop the country to have a world-class city. He said the facelift will transform Warren Hills Golf Course into a world-class 18-hole golf course with a drive range and a clubhouse. “We are facing challenges of the economy in the country that has limited our chance to have real development and our plea is for everyone to allow us to develop this country so as to be a world-class city,” Sharpe said. He said engagement with the Environmental Management Agency was ongoing but approval had already been given, adding the project will not be destroyed to start a new one, but was only a facelift. The golf club has been lying idle for several years due to neglect and resources to keep the elite sporting venue running. In a recent statement, City of Harare acting chamber secretary Warren Chiwewe said the golf course project is owned by Sunshine Development, a joint venture company between City of Harare and Augur Investments. “The land is owned by Sunshine Development a joint venture company between City of Harare and Augur Investments,” Chiwewe said. The joint venture agreement was that the City of Harare will provide land and Sunshine Development will contribute US$7 million for the development . Sharpe said they have since engaged Peter Macintosh, a top golf course designer in Africa to redesign the golf course. “He provided plans for the golf course and we are in the final stages of finalising a contract with him. It will remain an 18-hole golf course as well as a drive range and a clubhouse. We believe as the top developer in the county, we want to create a place where people can work, play, and shop in the same area,” he said. Sharpe said environmental concerns have been raised around the area but extensive studies have been done by EMA over the last two years, adding he would work with stakeholders to make sure that whatever elements need to be protected are protected.