The Herald LONDON. – Zimbabwe international defender Tendayi Darikwa could not hide his immense “pride’’ at leading Wigan Athletic back to the English Championship football as League One champions on Saturday. Darikwa picked up the trophy after Latics beat Shrewsbury 3-0 to ensure top spot after a gruelling 46-game campaign. And the Zimbabwe international believes the squad have every right to be chuffed after cementing their place in Latics history. “I’m so proud – proud of the group and proud of the whole club,” he said. “It’s been a long, tough season and, after the last few games, we came here with a bit of pressure on us. “But we wanted to be champions, and to deliver a performance like that is testament to the group. Days like this don’t always come around in this game. Some of the greatest footballers to have ever played the game didn’t win anything in their careers. “Every league, every title, is tough to win, and to come out on top after 46 games is credit to the lads.” Darikwa was perhaps a surprise pick by Leam Richardson last summer to wear the armband this term. But he’s more than repaid the fair of a manager who’d worked with him previously at Chesterfield, and recognised his leadership qualities on and off the pitch. “It’s hard to put into words, to be fair, what this means,” Darikwa added. “The lads have worked hard all season, the gaffer’s brought in some unbelievable characters. “To stand here now as captain of this team is a huge honour for me.” The Zimbabwean led the team to promotion after he took over the armband at the start of the season. He has played a pivotal role in his team’s quest to win the promotion this term, missing just three games in the league this season. The triumph, meanwhile, sees him returning to the English Championship having been released by Nottingham Forest over a year ago. Wigan’s return to the Championship after two years in the second tier goes some way towards righting the wrong of the club’s darkest period, which very nearly had the worst possible ending. Under Leam Richardson – and Phoenix 20212 Limited – are back where they belong. But the manager was quick to highlight the real victims, who he hopes will have enjoyed Saturday’s events. “There were times last season when we needed everyone’s support, and we certainly got that,” he said. “None more so than from our own fans, who were there for us when we needed them the most. “First and foremost, I’d like to dedicate this title win to the fans, and also every single member of staff who was made redundant during the administration period. “This club has been through such challenging times, and for us to come through it, none of it would have been possible on my own. “It comes from the support of others -your family, friends, players and the staff – who have all played their part. “Every single accolade we get, and I get, it’s shared among everyone.” Latics have had to contend with outside comments throughout the campaign of their perceived financial advantage, something Richardson has refused to get involved with. “We were getting compliments – or backhanded compliments – right from the off,” he said. “Even though we started with three players, all we were hearing was how much we were spending. “But all we ever did was keep our heads down, because actions speak louder than words. “This game is made up of inches, and margins, and if you work hard enough, believe in what you’re doing, and surround yourself with good people, you normally get the right results. “The league table doesn’t lie after 46 games. “And those lads in our dressing room thoroughly deserve to be champions.” Meanwhile, another Zimbabwe international defender Jordan Zemura was back in the AFC Bournemouth first team as the Cherries maintained their promotion challenge into the English Premier League with a resounding 3-0 win over Blackburn Rovers at Ewood Park on Saturday. Phil Billing provided the assist for Dom Solanke’s first-half opener before netting twice in the second half to put the finishing touches to an outstanding individual display. – WiganToday.com.