The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter ZIFA Eastern Region Division One Soccer League side JM Busha will hold their mid-season trials at Murehwa Council Grounds today and tomorrow where they expect to recruit some experienced players to blend with their current crop of players. JM Busha, who gained promotion at the start of the season, are looking forward to strengthen their squad which has done fairly well in the championship race. The club is owned by renowned businessman, James Makamba, who, through his JM Busha Investment Group, has diversified his sporting interest into football after several years of hosting marathon and cycling events. JM Busha has of late partnered National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe and over the years sponsored events such as JM Busha 54 races in the 21km 42km, and 54km. JM Busha acquired a ZIFA Eastern Region Division One club franchise from PG Minerals, who were based in Uzumba Maramba Pfungwe, and owned by a Mutawatawa businessman. Clifford Dzvairo, the team’s coach, said they are looking forward to complement their team which did fairly well in the first half of the season as they were still learning. “We will hold our trials as we look forward to complement our team with a centreback, striker, right-winger and a central midfield. We are looking at 18 to 26-year-old-players and we have the Mutoko, Murehwa UMP and Juru communities to tap talent from. “We are happy that for the first time in many years, Murehwa now has a Division One team as most teams preferred to use Chikondoma and there hasn’t been Division One football, in the area, for years. “We are a big community and in the beginning we were anticipating to have Under-23 players, but we have realised experience also help a lot so we are trying to work very hard and hope one day our dream of having a team in the Premiership will be realised,” said Dzvairo. The team is currently on position 12 out of 16 teams and they hope it was a learning curve and they will improve in the second half of the season. “The league season has been great so far. It’s been a great learning process and we are now looking forward to apply what we have learnt into practice so that we finish in a better position probably in the top eight. “We are working with the target of getting the promotion into the Premier Soccer League, that is the first target,’’ Dzvairo added.