The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWEAN players had a fair start at the Cranrid International Tennis Federation 18 & Under South Central Circuit Zim Leg 1 tournament that got underway in Bulawayo yesterday with three of the players winning their first-round matches. Ethan Sibanda, who is the leading player among the local players in the boys’ singles, had a good day on the court after beating South African Francois van Wyk 6-4, 4-6, 6-3. The match was a repeat of last year’s Cranrid International Tennis Federation tournament that was held at Harare Sports Cub where Sibanda cruised to a victory against the same opponent. Sibanda used to train with van Wyk in South Africa which seems to play to his advantage. Another Zimbabwean who did well yesterday is Harry Malachi who beat Eswatini Hayden Lofler 6-2, 5-7 and 6-2. Shayne Tapera capped a good morning for the Zimbabwean players when he beat Australian Jay Singh 6-0, 6-2. However, Takura Muhwandagara began on a losing note, losing to Indian Rayan Koothrat 3-6, 6-1 and 7-6. In the girls’ singles, top seed Tanya Midzi beat fellow countrygirl Hailey Banda 6-1, 6-1. Kenyan Melissa Mwaka beat Zimbabwean Chanelle Zhuwakini in two straight sets 6-3, 6-0. The tournament ends on Saturday. Last week, Bulawayo hosted the South Central Zim Leg 2. Although the local boys struggled in the singles, failing to go beyond the first round, Tanya Midzi had a good outing and managed to reach the final where she eventually lost to South African Celina Joseph 3-6, 6-2, 6-3. In the semi-finals, Midzi had beaten South African Sophia Fuller in straight sets of 6-2, 6-1. And in the quarter-finals, she had prevailed over Ireland Lucy Hogan 6-3, 6-4. Zimbabwean Tadiwa Eunice Mauchi lost to Joseph in the quarter-finals 6-0, 6-0. Midzi is currently ranked 443. This year she has also managed to contest in the J4 Gaborone in April, and the ITF/CAT African Closed Circuit that was held in Tunisia in March. Midzi in January also competed in the ITF African East 18 Under. The Peterhouse student has managed to improve her ranking over the course of tournaments since she began playing in the ITF Under-18 age-group.