The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter PREMIERSHIP title contenders Chicken Inn have signed their former striker Clive Augusto just four days after he was sacked by Harare giants CAPS United. The forward reportedly agreed to a two-year deal as he looks to revive his career at the club that catapulted him to stardom a few years back. Chicken Inn secretary general Tavengwa Hara confirmed to The Herald yesterday that Augusto has returned to the Gamecocks’’ fold. “It’s a deal done and we welcome him back after his stint with CAPS United. I will not dwell much into the details of the contract but, for your own information, Chicken Inn does not sign players on short contracts. “The paperwork is already being finalised. The only unfortunate thing is that the transfer window is closed. So we will have to wait just a few more games until it reopens. But he should start training with the rest of the team any time from now,” said Hara. Augusto, goalkeeper Simba Chinani and defender Dennis Dauda had their contracts terminated on Monday by the Green Machine. This followed an industrial action which resulted in the CAPS United’s league match against Cranborne Bullets at the National Sports Stadium getting delayed by about 45 minutes last Sunday. However, the forward got immediate relief when his former club managed to re-sign him after shrugging off competition from rivals. The highly-rated striker failed to assert himself in the CAPS United system where he had managed to score only one goal this season. Reports also indicated he was set for a possible reunion with his former coach at Ngezi Platinum Tonderai Ndiraya, who is now at Dynamos. But the Gamecocks yesterday put an end to the speculation when they made the announcement. Augusto is expected to widen attacking options for Joey Antipas’ troops in the department that is being led by Brian Muza, who has scored eight goals so far and is trailing pacesetters CAPS United Manondo and Manica Diamonds Nyasha Chintuli, who have nine goals apiece. Chicken Inn duo of Brett Amidu and Marlvin Hwata have scored three goals each this season. Augusto left Ngezi Platinum to join Chicken Inn in 2019. He scored 14 goals in 17 matches for the Bulawayo side in the first half of the season before attracting interest from South Africa where he was signed by Maritzburg United. But after enduring an unsuccessful two-year stint, he returned home to join CAPS United last year in August as direct replacement for South Africa-bound Ishmael Wadi. Augusto, who was fingered as one of the ring leaders of the industrial action, was sacrificed along with Dauda and Chinani, as midfielders Rodwell Chinyengetere, Devon Chafa, and Ronald Chitiyo were later pardoned. The trio was also part of the sacked players but the club made a U-turn after further investigations which exonerated the midfielders. Fixtures Today: Cranborne Bullets v Yadah (National Sports Stadium). Tomorrow: Harare City v Manica Diamonds (National Sports Stadium), Chicken Inn v Herentals (Luveve), ZPC Kariba v Whawha (Nyamhunga), FC Platinum v CAPS United (Mandava), Black Rhinos v Ngezi Platinum (Sakubva). Sunday: Tenax v Triangle (Sakubva), Dynamos v Bulawayo City (Barbourfields).