The Herald MANCHESTER. — Jesse Lingard’s brother has branded Manchester United as “classless” as he slammed the English Premiership football club for not giving the midfielder an Old Trafford send off. The 29-year-old was an unused substitute at the Theatre of Dreams on Monday night as the Red Devils beat Brentford 3-0. It was United’s final home game of the season, and the last opportunity for soon-to-be free agents to play in front of the club’s faithful at the hallowed ground. Nemanja Matic started against the Bees, while Spanish veteran Juan Mata was named in the line-up for the first time in the Premier League this season. Edinson Cavani was then brought off from the bench — along with Phil Jones, who despite being tied down until 2023, is expected to depart in the summer. But instead of Lingard being given a farewell to the supporters, Fred was subbed on instead — much to the anger of his brother Louie Scott. Lingard, who came through the academy at United, decided against extending his stay due to limited game time. Linked with moves to Italian giants Juventus and AC Milan, the England international has scored 35 goals in 232 games for the club since making his debut in 2014. He scored the winner in the 2016 FA Cup final against Crystal Palace, while he also found the back of the net in the 2016 Community Shield and 2017 League Cup final. Posting on his Instagram story, Louie referenced those important goals as he delivered a scathing assessment of United. He said: “20 years of blood sweat and tears, four domestic trophies, three cup final goals, not even a farewell. No wonder it’s Conference League next year. “Attacking players for celebrations when the clubs being sold to the super league OK. “Class of 92, Busby Babes, you’re ran by people who don’t even know the offside trap. Classless and the fans need to realise. Goodnight, godbless! “Been there since nine years of age and didn’t even get a send off!!! Well done bro your family are proud.” Many fans took to social media to state United was right in not playing Lingard as they cited his dressing room leaks to Paul Scholes. But many insisted he should have been allowed to come on, as one user tweeted: “Lowkey right, rather he played than Cavani.” Another said: “Yeah to be honest Jesse deserve a farewell because he had serverd the club for so long.” A third added: “Firm believer of the fact Lingard isn’t good enough but he’s right.” — Metro