The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S preparations for the upcoming series against Afghanistan got a huge boost yesterday after Australia also confirmed that the Chevrons will tour their shores, for the first time in over 18 years. Cricket Australia confirmed a three-match ODI series to begin towards the end of August this year at Townsville, a coastal city in northeastern Queensland, Australia. The tour had hung in suspense over the last two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The white ball series will kick start a busy season for the Australians, who are also set to host New Zealand, West Indies and England in ODIs and T20I series before they welcome the rest of the world for the ICC T20 World Cup between October and November. The marathon schedule will continue into the new year with more ODIs and Tests against England, West Indies and South Africa. The ODI series against Zimbabwe is key for both teams as it constitutes part of the ICC Cricket World Cup Super League, which is also the qualifying format for next year’s ICC Cricket World Cup. Australia are currently fourth with 70 points, after winning seven of their 12 matches. The series had been postponed previously due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Zimbabwe last toured Australia for ODI games back in May 2004, with the Chevrons suffering a 0-3 defeat in the four-match series. The teams played more ODIs in Harare since then. The teams last met in that format in August 2014 at Harare Sports Club, with Zimbabwe edging to a three-wicket victory during a triangular series. That was only their second ODI win over Australia, with the first coming in their first ever meeting at Trent Bridge during the Prudential World Cup in 1983. While Zimbabwe and Australia rarely engage in bilateral series, the two nations had a go at each other the last time in a T20I Triangular series at Harare Sports Club in 2018. It is understood that Zimbabwe Cricket had wanted to take the opportunity to play more games during the tour, but Cricket Australia have apparently turned down the proposals to either include a Test match or three T20Is in the original three-match ODI plan due to the extremely busy schedule of Australia in the coming days. Zimbabwe are currently pre-occupied with the preparations for the upcoming home series against Afghanistan. The Chevrons are set to play three ODIs and as many T20Is during the next two weeks. The three ODIs are scheduled to begin this Saturday and end on June 9 at Harare Sports Club. The matches are part of the ICC Cricket World Cup Super League, whereas the T20Is (June 11th-14th) will count towards the ICC T20I Rankings. The T20Is will serve as part of Zimbabwe’s final preparations for the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup Qualifier B 2022, which is one of two global tournaments that together form the final stage of the qualification process for the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup 2022 to be staged in Australia. Zimbabwe will host the eight-team qualifying tournament in July. The Afghanistan team are already in Zimbabwe and have set up a week-long preparation camp. This will be Afghanistan’s fourth outing at the ICC Cricket World Cup Super League after playing Ireland, the Netherlands and Bangladesh in their first three series in the super league and are currently placed at fifth position in the super league table with 70 points from nine games. Zimbabwe are struggling second from the bottom of the 13-team table after playing 12 games and raking up 35 points, from three wins. Zim v Afghanistan Series: ODI Itinerary: June 4 – 1st ODI, Harare Sports Club, Harare June 6 – 2nd ODI, Harare Sports Club, Harare June 9 – 3rd ODI, Harare Sports Club, Harare T20I Itinerary: June 11 – 1st T20I, Harare Sports Club, Harare June 12 – 2nd T20I, Harare Sports Club, Harare June 14 – 3rd T20I, Harare Sports Club, Harare Men’s Dettol ODI Series Australia v Zimbabwe Aug 28: Riverway Stadium, Townsville Aug 31: Riverway Stadium, Townsville Sep 3: Riverway Stadium, Townsville