The Herald Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe senior cricket team need a strong response from the disappointment they suffered in the previous game as they look to regain control of the T20 International series against Namibia at Queens Sports Club this afternoon. The Chevrons put up a poor batting display after winning the toss and were beaten by eight wickets. The series is evenly balanced 1-1, as Zimbabwe had taken the first match narrowly by seven runs. But after going down closely in the first match, the Namibians returned and dominated the hosts in all departments. The Eagles victory was big news back in Namibia as it was their first over a Full Member country. The Zimbabwean players will need to do their homework to make sure they avoid further embarrassment at home. It’s a big challenge for the hosts. The top order needs to come through for Zimbabwe, with veteran Regis Chakabva and Wessly Madhevere likely to be given the responsibility to open the innings again today. The duo last time disappointed after contributing only 10 runs for the first wicket partnership that lasted only the one over. The whole batting line up could not maneuver with Milton Shumba (29), who came in to bat at number six, the highest scorer, followed Tony Munyonga’s 23 runs down the order. Still their total score of 122/8 was not good enough to trouble the visitors, who lost only two wickets on their way to a deserved victory, achieved with 12 balls to spare, after reaching 124/2. Zimbabwe are using the five-match T20I series as part of the preparations for the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup Qualifier B, which they host in July. The tournament is one of two global tournaments that together form the final stage of the qualification process for the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup 2022 to be staged in Australia. Namibia have already qualified on the back of their fine performances at the last tournament. Zimbabwe T20I Squad: Craig Ervine (captain), Ryan Burl, Sikandar Raza Butt, Regis Chakabva, Tendai Chatara, Tanaka Chivanga, Bradley Evans, Luke Jongwe, Innocent Kaia, Wessly Madhevere, Tadiwanashe Marumani, Ernest Masuku, Brandon Mavuta, Tony Munyonga, Richmond Mutumbami, Victor Nyauchi, Milton Shumba, Donald Tiripano Namibia Squad: Divan la Cock; Craig Williams; Nicol Loftie Eaton; Gerhard Erasmus; JJ Smit; David Wiese; Ruben Trumpelmann; Jan Frylinck; Bernard Scholtz; Tangeni Lungameni; Helao Ya France; Michael van Lingen; Ben Shikongo; Zane Green