The Herald MANCHESTER. — Pep Guardiola said “everyone in England supports Liverpool” after Manchester City moved three points clear at the top of the English Premier League football table. City’s 5-0 win over Newcastle on Sunday came the day after Liverpool dropped points in a 1-1 draw with Tottenham. In contrast, Guardiola’s side lost in the Champions League semi-finals in midweek as the Reds reached the final. City’s boss was delighted with the “perfect response” following their heartbreaking Champions League KO at Real Madrid. Raheem Sterling scored twice as City routed Newcastle to move three points clear of Jurgen Klopp’s Quadruple-chasers. The defending champions will lift a fourth title in five years if they win their remaining three matches — starting at Wolves tomorrow night — and Guardiola believes that will upset the nation. Guardiola claimed the entire country want Liverpool to win the English Premier League title. Pep said: “Everyone in this country supports Liverpool, the media and everyone. “Of course because Liverpool has an incredible history in European competition. Not in the Premier League, because they have won one in 30 years, but it is not a problem at all.” Guardiola’s side are looking to win a fourth English Premier League title in five years, with Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool taking the crown in 2019-20, and visit Wolves tomorrow, before a trip to West Ham and a home game to finish against Aston Villa. “Liverpool are alongside (Manchester) United as the most important team in terms of titles, legacy, history, dramas for many, many things,” said Guardiola. “But we have since the last 11 or 12 years been there. I know sometimes we are uncomfortable, but I don’t care if the people want Liverpool to win more than us. It is not an issue.” He added: “We have to do nine points or maybe six, it depends what is going to happen in the next two games in terms of goal difference, but now Wednesday is the real, real, real final for us. Our destiny is in our hands and this is important.” — AFP